For the latest and greatest information that is customized to your vehicle, view the Owner’s Manual on your vehicle’s touchscreen by touching the app launcher and then selecting the Manual app..
The information is specific to your vehicle depending on the features you purchased, vehicle configuration, market region, and software version.
In contrast, owner information that is provided by Tesla elsewhere is updated as necessary and may not contain information unique to your vehicle.
Information about new features is displayed on the touchscreen after a software update, and can be viewed at any time by The illustrations provided in this document are for demonstration purposes only.
Depending on vehicle options, software version and market region, the information displayed on the touchscreen in your vehicle may appear slightly different.
All specifications and descriptions contained in this document are verified to be accurate at the time of printing.
However, because continuous improvement is a goal at Tesla, we reserve the right to make product modifications at any time.
To communicate any inaccuracies or omissions in this document, please send an email to: ownersmanualfeedback@tesla.com.
You can find safety information in your Model 3  Owner's Manual on the touchscreen.
For detailed information about your Model 3 , go to the Tesla website for your region, log on to your Tesla account, or sign up to get All information in this document and all vehicle software is subject to copyright and other intellectual property rights of Tesla, Inc.
and its licensors.This material may not be modified, reproduced or copied, in whole or in part, without the prior written permission of Tesla, Inc.. and its licensors..
Additional information is available upon request.Shown here are trademarks or registered trademarks of Tesla, Inc..
in the United States and other countries: the safety of vehicle occupants as well as other road users, avoid using the touchscreen to adjust settings while the Use the touchscreen to control many features that, in traditional cars, are controlled using physical buttons (for example, adjusting the cabin heating and air conditioning, headlights, etc.).
You also use the touchscreen to control media, navigate, use entertainment features, and customize Model 3  to suit your preferences.
For hands-free access to common touchscreen If the touchscreen is unresponsive or demonstrates unusual behavior, you can restart it (see Restarting the Touchscreen  on CAUTION:  Do not apply a screen protector on the touchscreen.
Doing so can result in unintended inputs to the damage the touchscreen, etc.Any damage caused by installing a screen protector is not covered by the warranty..
market region and regional and language settings, the details displayed on the screen will differ .2..
Navigation : Change the orientation of the map, find or navigate to a destination, and change navigation settings (see Maps 3.
Car status : This area dynamically displays the current status of Model 3  as you drive, park, open doors, turn lights on, etc.
"cards" for Media, tire pressures, and Trip Information.Touchscreen your vehicle's surroundings.You can expand/condense the visualization by dragging the car status area from side to side..
Expanding the visualization displays more details about the roadway and its surroundings, including road markings, stop 4.
Controls : Control various features and customize Model 3  to suit your preferences.The Controls screen appears over the map..
Touch an option on the Controls screen to display the various settings and preferences associated with the chosen To search for a specific setting, touch Search  at the top of the Controls screen.
Make changes directly from the result or touch the link to jump to that option in Controls.
When an information icon displays beside a specific setting, touch it to display a popup that provides helpful display separate controls for the driver and passenger.
Touch the temperature icon to customize climate control settings been Split  to provide separate controls for the driver and passenger.6..
My Apps : For one-touch access to frequently used apps and controls, you can choose what displays here.See Customizing 7.. App Launcher : Touch the app launcher to open the app tray..
Then touch any app to open it.The app you choose displays on top of the map.. To close an app, drag it downward.. apps have been added to My Apps ..
If you add the maximum number of apps to My Apps , only the most recent app displays.
For one-touch access to commonly used apps and controls, you can customize what displays in the My Apps  area on the 1.
Enter customization mode by touching and holding any app or control in the My Apps  area.If this area is empty, 2..
Drag any app or control from the app tray onto the My next to the temperature, instead of in the My Apps area.
controls to My Apps , adding an additional app removes the touching and holding, then touching its associated "X".Top Status Bar Icons 4:20 pm Your vehicle automatically updates the time.
Popup messages appear at the bottom of the touchscreen.
For example, a seat belt reminder appears if a seat belt is unfastened in an occupied seat, an alert appears to notify you of an incoming phone call, a text message appears (when applicable), and voice commands appear when in use.
If applicable, touch options from these popup messages (for example, accept/decline a phone call, choose an option from the headlight menu, etc.).
To dismiss a popup message, If an alert appears on your vehicle's touchscreen, touch Learn More  for more details regarding the alert and how it can be resolved.
You can view a list of vehicle alerts and notifications by touching the bell icon at the top of Controls .You can restart your touchscreen if it is unresponsive or vehicle is stopped and in Park..
The car status display, 2.Hold down both scroll buttons on the steering wheel  until the touchscreen turns black.. Pressing the brake pedal while holding down the scroll buttons does not have any 3..
After a few seconds, the Tesla logo appears.Wait approximately 30 seconds for the touchscreen to restart..
If the touchscreen is still unresponsive or demonstrating unusual behavior after a few minutes, try power cycling touchscreen.
It does not restart any other vehicle component Touch Controls  > Display  to adjust display settings to suit • Appearance : Customize the display to be Dark  or Light .
When set to Auto , the brightness changes automatically automatically adjusts to use warmer colors at night.• Brightness : Drag the slider to manually control the brightness level..
If Display Mode  is set to Auto , the touchscreen further adjusts based on both the ambient lighting conditions and your brightness preference.
Model • Automatic Blind Spot Camera : Touch to enable or disable Automatic Blind Spot Camera .
For more information, see • Screen Clean Mode : When enabled, your touchscreen darkens and temporarily disables to facilitate cleaning.
Follow the onscreen instructions to exit Screen Clean • Scroll Wheel Function : Select what settings you can change when long pressing the left scroll wheel (see • Touchscreen Language : Select the language that the When you change the language, you experience a brief touchscreen.• Voice Recognition Language : Choose the language to be • Voice Navigation Language : Choose the language that the language in the dropdown list to initiate the download • Keyboard Language : Add or remove keyboards in different languages.
By default, the keyboard in the touchscreen language you have selected is enabled.
If you have multiple keyboards enabled, you can switch between them whenever the keyboard is on the touchscreen by touching the globe icon, or touching and holding to show • Text size : Select between Standard and Large  to customize the text size on your vehicle's touchscreen.
• Time : Choose to display time in either 12 or 24 hour • Energy Display : Choose to display remaining energy and charging units as either a percentage of battery energy remaining, or as an estimate of the distance you can drive.
energy estimate as a general guideline only.
Many factors • Distance : Choose to display measurements in metric • Temperature : Choose to display temperature using • Tire Pressure : Choose to display tire pressures using BAR In addition to customizing the display, you can enable Joe Mode to reduce the volume of all chimes that are not related to critical safety issues.
Touch Controls  > Safety  > Joe Mode To further personalize your vehicle, you can name it.
Touch Controls  > Software  > Name Y our Vehicle  located on the right side of the touchscreen below the image of Model 3 .If your vehicle already has a name, touch the existing name to change it..
Enter the new name in the popup and touch Save .The name of your Model 3  also appears in the Tesla mobile Need guidance for setting up your Tesla vehicle for the first time?.
Go to Service  > Owner's Manual  > Get to Know Y our Tesla  to access onboarding guidance resources and familiarize yourself with your Model 3 .Touchscreen In addition to storage compartments and cup holders (see various electronics such as an RFID transmitter that reads wireless phone charger , and a low voltage  power outlet.
Model 3  has two USB ports located in the front compartment of the center console.
These ports can be used to: • Play audio files stored on a phone or USB device (see • For saving Sentry Mode and Dashcam video footage, use the USB port located in the glove box.
Doing so increases The USB ports can output power up to approximately 15W November 1, 2021, the center console USB ports may only support charging devices.
Use the USB port inside the glove 136 for information about formatting USB flash drives.Open the front compartment of the center console..
The front USB ports are located on the rear wall of the compartment.Depending on date of manufacture, some vehicles include a USB port located inside the glovebox..
This USB-A port is equipped with a pre-formatted flash drive , ready to save videos when using features such as Sentry Mode and Dashcam .
Although not its primary purpose, this port can also communicate with the vehicle and can be used to charge Two additional USB ports are located in the rear of the center console (on vehicles manufactured since approximately June 2020, these ports are USB-C).
These ports charge USB- connected devices but do not communicate with the vehicle.that a user is present..
A user is considered present when a person is in the driver seat or interacts with the touchscreen.Power is also available during Camp Mode..
Leaving an accessory plugged in does not deplete the low voltage USB port.
Using non-compliant cables can result in slower charging, potential connection problems or degraded can prevent connected devices from charging or from being recognized by Media Player , Sentry Mode, Dashcam, etc .
front console to provide up to 15W of power to charge a Qi- enabled phone.Simply place your phone on the charger..
Your device may feel warm while charging, but this is a normal When placed on the wireless charger, your phone charges whenever the vehicle is powered on (the touchscreen is on and you are inside the vehicle).
Your phone will not charge after exiting the vehicle  unless a feature (such as Sentry mode) is enabled and providing power to the USB ports .
Model 3  will also not charge a phone if the vehicle's Battery is To disable the wireless phone chargers while in the vehicle, touch Controls  > Charging  > Wireless Phone Charging Pads .
Model 3  can also notify you if you exit the vehicle while your phone is still on a wireless charger.To enable this feature, touch Controls  > Locks  and enable Phone Left on Wireless Charger ..
For more information, see Phone Left on Wireless detection even if power to the wireless phone chargers is charger.
The wireless phone charger may not work if your phone case is too large or is made of metal.Try removing the phone from its case before placing in the charger..
and charger, as well as any NFC cards (for example, the vehicle key card, credit cards, or hotel key) placed on Power is available when the vehicle is in use or detects that a user is present.
A user is considered present when a person is in the driver's seat, interacts with the touchscreen, or when in Camp .
Leaving an accessory plugged in does not deplete If you want to continue powering or charging your devices without a user present in the vehicle, enable Keep Accessory Power On  by touching Controls  > Charging  > Keep Accessory Power On .
This is not available when Model 3  is in Low Power amount of power used by the vehicle even if the vehicle is not Your Model 3  has a power outlet located in the center The power outlet is suitable for accessories requiring up to November 2021, power inverters plugged into the low voltage  power outlet must support 16V DC input to function.
that a user is present.A user is considered present when a person is in the driver seat or interacts with the touchscreen.. Power is also available during Camp Mode..
Leaving an accessory plugged in does not deplete the low voltage vehicle’s electronics, Tesla recommends that you do not plug any non-Tesla accessories, including power inverters, into the low voltage  power outlet.
However, if malfunctions or unexpected behavior, such as indicator lights, alert messages, or excessive heat from the accessory, unplug the accessory from the low voltage CAUTION:  Do not attempt to jump start Model 3  using the low voltage  power outlet.
Doing so can result in The touchscreen displays the status of Model 3  at all times.
When Model 3  is parked, the status area shows the drive mode, estimated range, and an overhead view of the car with buttons you can touch to open the trunks and charge port door.
When you press the brake, Model 3  powers up and indicator lights flash briefly.
Unless an indicator light applies to the current situation (for example, a seat belt is not fastened), it should turn off.If an indicator light fails to turn purposes only..
Depending on vehicle options, software version, and market region, the information displayed may be The bottom of the car status display also shows shortcut "cards" for quick access to Media, tire pressure data, trip information, and more.
Swipe the cards to the left or right to The following indicator lights illuminate to advise you or alert braking system remains fully operational Car Status Mexico may show either the text or icon of the brake, ABS, visualization of the road as detected by the Self-Driving automatically zooms in and out to better utilize touchscreen space and inform you when a vehicle is detected in your blind purposes only.
Depending on vehicle options, software version, and market region, the information displayed may be 1.Currently selected drive mode: Park, Reverse, Neutral, or 3..
Power meter: The power meter displays real-time power 6.The speed limit that is currently being detected by Speed icon to notify that you are above the speed limit..
reflects the style of speed limit signs used in your market Touch the displayed value to change how available energy is displayed.
You can toggle between driving distance and percentage of battery energy remaining.
You can also change how energy is displayed by touching Controls  > that display at the bottom of the car status area of the touchscreen.Ignoring these messages can result in displayed..
Never rely on the touchscreen to determine Always use your mirrors and perform shoulder checks.Car Status a variety of languages to use for voice commands.
To choose a different language, touch Controls  > Display  > Voice Drivers can use voice commands to easily control settings requests.
The following is a non-exhaustive list of actions To initiate a voice command, press and release the right scroll wheel button on the steering wheel .
When a chime sounds, Here is a list of example voice commands.This is not an exhaustive list..
Tesla is constantly working to improve voice Update the windshield wiper speed and frequency based on • "Increase/decrease windshield wiper speed by..." • "I'm feeling hungry/lucky"  (see Maps and Navigation  on If you have defined a navigation address for your home or work locations, you can use a voice command to navigate there by saying "Navigate home"  or "Take me to work" .Voice Commands To call or text a contact on your Bluetooth-connected phone Listen to media and adjust your playback preferences: To improve voice command recognition accuracy, provide multiple cues in your command, such as artist and song.
You can also file a bug report by saying "Report"  , For more information on voice commands, go to https:// captures and processes voice command transcriptions (such as “set the temperature…”).
Audio voice recordings are not collected, and transcriptions are not associated with your Tesla account or with your vehicle's identification number.
To further protect your privacy, voice commands containing personal data are not captured (such as "Navigate to..." or Your Model 3  includes the following components that 1.
A camera is mounted above the rear license plate.4..
Three cameras are mounted to the windshield above the Model 3  is also equipped with high precision electronically- Your Model 3  may be equipped with a cabin camera located above the rear view mirror.
For more information, see Cabin You can enable or disable the Automatic Blind Spot Camera by touching Controls  > Display  on the vehicle touchscreen and then touching Automatic Blind Spot Camera .Once enabled, when the turn signal is engaged, the touchscreen displays the image from the corresponding side repeater camera.
When a vehicle is detected in your blind spot in an adjacent lane, a vertical red bar appears on the image to warn you.
For example, when the left turn signal is engaged and a vehicle is detected, a vertical red bar appears on the left side of the image.
You can move the image to a different location on the touchscreen.
To do so, touch and drag the image to the new location (valid locations are indicated by shaded areas that display when you touch and eliminate the need to drive attentively and manually Model 3  must maneuver with precision when Self-Driving features are being used.
Therefore, before some features Emergency Braking  can be used for the first time or after some types of service repairs, cameras must complete a self- calibration process.
For your convenience, the touchscreen When calibration is complete, Self-Driving  features, as well as Active Safety features, are available for use.
Calibration but the distance varies depending on road and environmental conditions.
For example, calibration completes quicker when driving on a straight road with multiple lanes (such as a controlled-access highway), with highly-visible lane Contact Tesla only if your Model 3  has not completed the If a camera has shifted from its calibrated position (for example, the camera or windshield was replaced), you must clear the calibration.
To do so, touch Controls  > Service  > Camera Calibration > Clear Calibration .When the calibration is cleared, Model 3  repeats the calibration process..
While this helps re-calibrate the cameras in many cases, Clear Calibration  may not resolve all camera and sensor concerns.
markings in both the driving lane and adjacent lanes (at least two lanes over on each side of the vehicle).
For best results, drive in the middle lane of a multi-lane highway (ideally with at least five lanes) that has clear lane markings and minimal until the calibration process is complete, the feature is cameras are serviced by Tesla, and in some cases, after a Ensure all cameras are clean and free of obstructions before each drive and before using the features described in this conditions such as rain and faded lane markings, can affect performance.
If a camera is obstructed or blinded, Model 3 displays a message on the touchscreen  and Self-Driving Condensation can form inside the camera enclosures, especially if you park your vehicle outside in cold or wet conditions.
The touchscreen  may display an alert stating that a camera is blocked and that some or all Self-Driving  features may be temporarily restricted until the camera vision is clear.
To proactively dry the condensation, precondition the cabin by setting it to a warm temperature, turning the windshield defroster on, and directing the front air vents toward the door • Phone key  - You can set up your personal phone as a Bluetooth.
A phone key supports automatic locking and • Key card  - Unlike the phone key and key fobs, the key card does not support automatic locking and unlocking.
In situations where your phone key has a dead battery, or is lost or stolen, use your key card to unlock, drive, and lock buttons to open the front and rear trunks, and unlock, lock, and drive Model 3 .
The key fob also supports automatic locking and unlocking, if available in your CAUTION:  Remember to bring a key with you when you drive.
Although you can drive Model 3  away from its key, you will be unable to power it back on after it If you must leave your phone in the vehicle, disable Using your phone as a key is a convenient way to access your Model 3 .
As you approach, your phone's Bluetooth signal is detected and the doors unlock  when you pull a door handle .
Likewise, when you exit and walk away with the phone key, doors automatically lock (provided the Walk-Away Door Lock Once a phone has been authenticated, it no longer requires an internet connection to be used as a phone key for Model 3.
However, to use the phone hands-free, access your phone's contacts, play media from it, etc., you must also pair it and connect it as a Bluetooth device (see Bluetooth  on Bluetooth range but cannot tell whether your phone is inside or outside of the vehicle, or if it is far away (such as in your Some smartphones with NFC capability can be used to lock/ unlock your vehicle, just like using a key card.
Ensure the Tesla mobile app is correctly paired to your vehicle and enable the NFC function on your phone.
Once enabled, simply hold the phone to the driver's side door pillar to lock or unlock the door.
Refer to your smartphone's instructions for specific information on how to do this.Keep in mind that the phone key defaults as the “primary” key and the vehicle uses Bluetooth to detect your phone’s proximity to the vehicle.
The vehicle cannot detect whether the phone is inside or just outside of Model 3 .
If you leave your paired phone inside the vehicle with Bluetooth enabled, it is essentially the same as leaving your keys in your vehicle with the doors unlocked – even if you press the lock icon on the mobile app while sitting inside the vehicle.
Therefore, your vehicle may not be secure if you lock a paired phone key inside because Model 3  will unlock the door when the exterior door handle is pulled since the phone key is already detected.
Do not leave your smart phone in the front trunk.
When you press the lock button in the mobile app while your phone key is connected to Model 3 , a chime sounds and the touchscreen prompts you to touch the lock icon on the touchscreen.
Touching the lock icon on the touchscreen temporarily overrides any phone lock settings, such as Walk- Away Door Lock.
Otherwise, because your phone is enabled as a key, the doors will unlock when the exterior door handles are pulled even if you press the lock icon on your mobile app.
If you open the door from the inside, that will once again allow the doors to be opened from the outside so long as the phone key is detected (see Interior Locking and Unlocking  on To have Model 3  notify you when a phone is left on one of the When this feature is enabled, Model 3  sounds a chime and displays graphic on the touchscreen if the vehicle detects a phone left on one of the wireless phone chargers after all even when the wireless phone chargers are disabled (see Charger  to alert you that a phone key was left in the vehicle.
Phone Left on Wireless Charger  may not detect phones left on the wireless charging pads that are in thick cases, or if there are objects (coins, keys, metal objects, etc.) between the phone and charger, as well as any NFC cards (for example, the vehicle key card, credit cards, or hotel key) placed on or behind the Tesla provides you with two Model 3  key cards, designed to To use a key card to unlock or lock Model 3 , position the card as shown and tap it against the card reader located just below the Self-Driving  camera on the driver's side door pillar.
When Model 3  detects the key card, the exterior lights flash, or driver's side door pillar with the key card, and you may need to hold it against the transmitter for one or two Once inside, power up Model 3  by pressing the brake pedal within two minutes of scanning the key card (see Starting and minutes, you must re-authenticate by placing the key card near the card reader located behind the cup holders on the center console.
When your key card is detected, your two using a phone key or key fob.When you walk away carrying your key card, Model 3  does not automatically unlock/lock..
CAUTION:  Always carry your key card with you in your authenticated phone has a dead battery, or is lost or If you have purchased the key fob accessory, you can quickly familiarize yourself with this key by thinking of it as a miniature version of a Model 3 , with the Tesla badge representing the front.
The key has three buttons that feel 1.Front trunk - Double-click to unlatch the front trunk.. 2.. Lock/Unlock All - Single-click to lock doors and trunks 3..
Rear trunk - Double-click to unlatch the rear trunk.
Hold down for one to two seconds to open the charge port Once inside, power up Model 3  by pressing the brake pedal within two minutes of pressing the unlock button on the key longer than two minutes, you must press the unlock button again, or place the key fob near the card reader located behind the cup holders on the center console .
When your key fob is detected, the two minute authentication period When approaching or leaving Model 3  carrying the key fob, you do not need to point the key fob at Model 3  as you press Radio equipment on a similar frequency can affect the key.
If In the event that the key fob's battery is dead, you can still use it to drive the vehicle by scanning the key fob on the card reader located on the driver's side door pillar (like the key Instructions for changing the battery are provided in vehicles provided you authenticate it (see Managing Keys  on a time.
Therefore, to use a key fob for a different Model 3 , touch its flat side against the card reader on the driver's side temperatures, and damage from liquids.
Avoid contact Locking and unlocking Model 3  with your key fob is conveniently hands-free.Although you must be carrying a paired key fob, there is no need to use it..
Model 3  has sensors around the vehicle that can recognize the presence of a key fob within a range of approximately six feet (two meters) .
Therefore, you can keep your key fob in your pocket or purse and simply pull on the door handle to unlock.
When carrying your key fob with you, you can also open the trunk without having to use the key by pressing the rear trunk 's exterior door handle.
If Walk-Away Door Lock  is enabled, Model 3  automatically locks when you exit and the key fob is Passive locking and unlocking is automatically enabled when you pair your key fob to Model 3 .
Key fobs with the Model 3 logo printed on the flat side cannot passively lock and unlock disables after being stationary for five minutes while within vehicle range when the vehicle is not in use (for example, you are standing outside your vehicle).
In this situation, you must shake or press a button on the key fob to re-enable passive To display a list of all keys that can access your Model 3 , touch Controls  > Locks .
An icon displays next to each key to indicate whether the key is a phone key, key card, or key fob.
Use this list to manage keys that have access to your Model Model 3  supports up to 19 keys at a time.Three of those keys can be a phone key, key fob, or watch key..
When you reach this limit, you must delete a key before adding a new one.You can pair a key card or key fob to multiple  Tesla  vehicles..
This prevents you from having to deal with multiple keys when you switch vehicles.Key cards and key fobs can be paired and used with many vehicles at a time..
Pairing with a vehicle enables you to access the vehicle and enable driving.the key fob for passive entry and can also remotely unlock doors and open trunks and front trunks..
If you pair a key fob with multiple Tesla vehicles, you can only use passive entry and remote unlock and open with one vehicle at a time.
Choose the vehicle you want to passively enter or remotely unlock or open by touching the flat side of the key fob vehicle to which the key card or key fob is authenticated also You can use a phone to access Model 3  after you add your phone as a phone key.
Before you begin pairing your phone • Your phone's general Bluetooth settings are enabled.• Bluetooth is enabled within your phone's settings for the Tesla mobile app..
For example, on your phone, navigate to Settings, choose the Tesla mobile app, and ensure the • Access to your location is enabled.
Open the Tesla mobile app in your phone's settings and select Location  > Always .For the best experience, keep the mobile app running in Bluetooth..
Many phones disable Bluetooth when the battery is low.Ensure that your phone has enough battery power for 2.. Log in to the Tesla mobile app using your Tesla account 3..
While inside or near the vehicle, open the Tesla mobile app and touch Set Up Phone Key  on the main screen, or You can also use an Apple Watch as a key.
While inside or near the vehicle, open the Tesla mobile app on your Apple Watch and touch Set Up Watch Key  (see Mobile App for 4.
Follow the prompts on the mobile app and vehicle Model 3  can connect to three phone keys simultaneously.
Therefore, if more than three phone keys are detected and you want to authenticate or pair a different phone, move the If you have a key card or key fob that is already paired with your vehicle, you can pair a new key using the touchscreen.
1.On the touchscreen, touch Controls  > Locks  > Keys  > Add 2.. Scan your new key card or key fob on the card reader located behind the cup holders on the top of the center console..
After the new key card or key fob is recognized, temperature.Pairing a key fob that is very cold can be 3.. Scan a key card or key fob that has already been paired to 4..
When complete, the key list includes the new key.Touch the associated pencil icon to customize the name of the If you are the owner of the vehicle, you can pair a new key using the Tesla mobile app..
Adding keys from the Tesla mobile app can be helpful in the event that you don't have a version 4.29.0 of the Tesla mobile app on vehicles with 1.
While inside or near the vehicle, open the Tesla mobile 2.In the mobile app, touch Security & Drivers , then touch 3..
Scan your new key card or key fob on the card reader located behind the cup holders on the top of the center temperature.Pairing a key fob that is very cold can be 4..
When the key is paired successfully, the mobile app shows a confirmation message.
Touch Done  in the mobile app and remove the key card or key fob from the card When complete, the key list on the vehicle touchscreen includes the new key.
Touch the associated pencil icon to When you no longer want a key to access Model 3  (for example, you lost your phone or key card, etc.), follow these steps to remove it.1.
On the touchscreen, touch Controls  > Locks .2.. In the key list, find the key that you would like to delete 3.. When prompted, scan an authenticated key on the card reader to confirm the deletion..
When complete, the key or key fob at all times.
If only one key card remains on the key Under normal use, the accessory key fob has a battery that lasts for up to one year, depending on key fob version and selected vehicle settings.
When the battery is low, a message 1.With the key fob placed button side down on a soft surface, release the bottom cover, using a small flat- 2..
Remove the battery by lifting it away from the retaining 3.While avoiding touching the battery's flat surfaces, insert touching the battery's flat surfaces..
Finger marks on the flat surfaces of the battery can reduce battery life.4..
Holding the bottom cover at an angle, align the tabs on the cover with the corresponding slots on the key fob, then press the cover firmly onto the key fob until it snaps 5.
Test that the key fob works by unlocking and locking contains a coin cell battery.If the coin cell battery is swallowed, it can cause severe internal burns within two hours and can lead to death..
Keep new and used compartment does not close securely, stop using the product and keep it away from children.
If you think batteries might have been swallowed or placed inside If you lose a key card or key fob, you can purchase replacement ones on the Tesla Shop .
When ready to pair, Remember to remove your old key cards from Controls  > Use your thumb to push the wide part of the door handle.
The handle pivots toward you, and you can open the door by pulling the handle or pulling the edge of the door.ensure door handles function properly in cold weather..
avoid allowing fingers, jewelry, acrylic nails, etc.from being pinched by the door or door handle mechanism..
CAUTION:  Slamming or forcing closures (including the doors, rear trunk , or front trunk) can result in damage Model 3  doors are electrically powered.
To open a door while sitting inside, press the button located at the top of the interior door handle while pushing  the door open.
power, you will be unable to open the doors with the button on the top of the door handle.
See Opening Doors with No While sitting inside Model 3 , you can lock and unlock all You can also unlock the doors by pressing the Park button on the end of the drive stalk a second time.
Pressing this button once engages Park and pressing it again unlocks the doors.
If you have enabled your phone as a key, your vehicle cannot tell whether your phone is inside or outside of the vehicle.
If you want to lock the doors while inside Model 3  so that they cannot be opened from the outside, close the doors and use the lock icon on the touchscreen.
This temporarily overrides any phone lock settings, such as Walk-Away Door Lock.
Otherwise, because your phone is enabled as a key, the doors will unlock when the exterior door handles are pulled even if you press the lock icon on your mobile app.
If you open the door from the inside, that will once again allow the doors to be opened from the outside so long as the phone Doors and trunks can automatically lock when you walk away carrying your phone key or paired key fob  (if ordered after approximately October 1, 2019) .
To turn this feature on or off, When the doors lock, the exterior lights flash once and the sound when Model 3  locks, touch Controls  > Locks  > Lock the lock sound when the vehicle is locked from the outside • You check the Exclude Home  checkbox and Model 3  is parked at the location you have designated as Home.
For details on how to designate a location as Home, see • A phone key or paired key fob is detected inside Model 3 .• The phone key's Bluetooth setting is turned off..
• If Model 3  detects an authenticated key for several minutes after you exit the vehicle and close all doors, Walk-Away Lock disables and doors do not lock when you walk away.
In this case, you must manually lock your • The driver does not use the driver door to get out of the vehicle is locked, even when Walk-Away Door Lock is Enabling Controls  > Locks  > Driver Door Unlock Mode  only unlocks the driver door when you first unlock Model 3 .
The driver door unlocks only if a key is present on the driver side of the vehicle and not the passenger side.
To unlock the remaining doors, long press the button located at the top of the interior driver door handle, use the touchscreen, mobile app, or press the key fob a second time.Car Left Open Notifications To receive a mobile notification if a door, trunk and/or window is left open or if Model 3  is left unlocked unexpectedly, touch Controls  > Locks  > Car Left Open Model 3  has child locks on the rear doors to prevent them from being opened using the interior release buttons.
On the touchscreen, touch Controls  > Locks  > Child Lock .
You can choose Both  to engage the child lock on both rear doors, or you can choose Left or Right  to engage it on just a specific When you stop Model 3  and engage Park, you can choose to unlock all doors.
To turn this feature on or off, touch Controls Park button a second time after engaging Park.Doors Press down on a switch to lower the associated window.
• To lower a window fully, press the switch all the way down • To lower a window partially, press the switch gently and Similarly, pull a switch to raise the associated window: • To raise a window fully, pull the switch all the way up and • To raise a window partially, pull the switch gently and the vehicle trim when fully raised to prevent freezing and If a window is left open unintentionally, Model 3  can send a notification to the mobile app (touch Controls  > Locks  > Car Left Open Notification , then choose Doors & Windows ).
You can also enable Close Windows on Lock  by touching Controls  > Locks  > Close Windows on Lock .
When enabled, your vehicle automatically closes the windows when Model 3 information on preparing windows for cold weather.lower slightly when you open or close a door..
If you manually raise a window when the door is open, ensure responsibility to ensure that all occupants, especially children, do not have any body parts extended through To prevent passengers from using the rear window switches, touch Controls  > Locks  > Window Lock .
To unlock the rear you lock the rear window switches whenever children In the unlikely event that a window behaves unexpectedly (touches the bright molding, fails to open or close properly, goes down more than normal when the door opens, etc.), you 2.
Sit in the driver's seat and close the driver door.3.. Using the window's switch on the driver's door, raise  the 4.. Using the window's switch on the driver's door, lower  the 5..
Repeat step 3 and raise  the affected window until it stalls.The window should now be calibrated..
If the issue continues after attempting the calibration procedure a couple times, The roof, windshields, and windows in Model 3  are excellent components score less than 2 on the UV Index scale.
Review your region’s UV Index specifications for more information.
You are still responsible for taking the necessary precautions To open the rear trunk, ensure Model 3  is in Park, then do one • Touch the associated Open  button on the touchscreen.
• Double-click the rear trunk button on the key fob.
• Press the switch located under the rear trunk 's exterior CAUTION:  Before opening the rear trunk  in an enclosed the rear trunk  is properly adjusted to avoid low- hanging ceilings or objects (see Adjusting Opening Model 3  must be unlocked or detect a key before you can use by single-clicking the rear trunk button on the key fob accessory.
Then, when you double-click the rear trunk button, it moves again, but in the opposite direction powered trunk while it is opening, when you double-click, it pressing the trunk switch again or by grasping to stop it in objects).
You must proactively monitor the trunk to ensure that it does not come into contact with a person or object.
Failure to do so may result in damage or CAUTION:  Slamming or forcing closures (including the doors, rear trunk , or front trunk) can result in damage CAUTION:  Installation of aftermarket accessories that may cause it to close on its own of function in an To open the rear trunk  from inside the vehicle in the unlikely situation that Model 3  has no power, see Interior Emergency save it as the default or for a specific location, such as your 1.
To set a height, pause the trunk while it's moving, using the touchscreen.Alternatively, manually adjust to the preferred height by manually lowering or raising the rear 2..
To save the preferred height, follow the prompts on the underside of the rear trunk  until you hear a confirmation 3.
To reset your existing trunk opening to the factory default settings, or to clear any saved locations, go to Controls  > CAUTION:  Depending on configuration (such as wheel selection), your vehicle's rear trunk can open up to height to prevent it from coming into contact with low • Double-click the rear trunk button on the key fob.
• Press the switch located on the underside of the rear • Touch the associated Close  button on the touchscreen.
• Press the switch located by the rear trunk's exterior • Double-click the rear trunk button on the key fob.
If the powered trunk senses an obstruction when closing, it securely latched in the fully-closed position by lifting To access the cargo area inside the rear trunk, pull up the cargo cover.
You can then fold the cargo cover forward or Secure all cargo before moving Model 3 , and place heavy Distribute the weight of cargo as evenly as possible between lower compartment of the rear trunk or more than 285 maximum allowable total mass of the vehicle including all passengers, fluids, and cargo.
Interior Emergency Trunk Release An illuminated mechanical release located inside the rear trunk allows you to open the rear trunk from the inside if Model 3  has no electrical power.
This mechanical release also 1.Firmly press and hold the illuminated button in the 2.. While pressing the button, push the rear trunk open.. trunk or become locked inside..
An unrestrained child could suffer serious injury or death in a crash.
A child could suffer heat exhaustion or death if trapped in the vehicle, especially without climate control on.Rear Trunk To open the front trunk, ensure Model 3  is in Park, and then do one of the following before pulling the hood open: • Touch the associated Open  icon on the touchscreen.
• Double-click the front trunk button on the key fob.
important to check that the area around the hood is The Model 3  hood is not heavy enough to latch under its own weight and applying pressure on the front edge or center of 1.
Lower the hood until the striker touches the latches.2.. Place both hands on the front of the hood in the areas 3..
Carefully try to lift the front edge of the hood to ensure CAUTION:  Never leave your authenticated smartphone hood is securely latched in the fully closed position by carefully trying to lift the front edge of the hood upward and confirming there is no movement.
It is the driver's responsibility to ensure that the front trunk is If the front trunk is left open when you attempt to shift out of Park, a notification requiring you to confirm your intent to drive appears on the touchscreen.
If you choose to keep the front trunk open while driving, your vehicle speed is limited.
• You lock Model 3  using the touchscreen, key or mobile • You leave Model 3  carrying your key (if Walk-Away Door When loading cargo, distribute the weight of cargo as evenly as possible between the front and rear trunks and always maximum allowable total mass of the vehicle including all An illuminated interior release button inside the front trunk Press the interior release button to unlatch the front trunk, trunk.
Never shut the front trunk when a person is inside the front trunk do not bump against the release button, causing the hood to accidentally open.Front Trunk In addition to housing an RFID transmitter that reads key fobs includes cup holders, two storage compartments, and a To open the main storage compartment, pull its cover upward.
Open the front storage compartment by sliding its edge and hinge.Placing your hands and fingers near Your Model 3  has a rear console integrated in the center of the second row seat back..
Pull the console down to access Your Model 3  has a coat hanger on each side of the vehicle in the second row.Push the coat hanger to release it..
Push it To open the glovebox, touch Controls  > Glovebox .The glovebox automatically opens and its light turns on..
To close the glovebox, push it upward until it clicks into its For additional glovebox security, touch Controls  > Safety  > Model 3  using the mobile app, key card, you leave Model 3 carrying your phone key (if Walk-Away Door Lock is turned It does not lock when Model 3  is locked by touching the lock prevent injury to a passenger if a collision or sudden 1.
Move seat forward/backward and adjust the seat’s height To adjust the front passenger seat using the touchscreen, touch Controls  > Seats  and use the arrows next to the front passenger seat visualization to move the seat forward or CAUTION:  Do not move a front seat's backrest fully forward when the seat is also in the fully forward position.
Doing so can cause the top of the seat to hit, area around the seat is free of obstacles (people and back reclined can result in serious injuries in a collision, as you could slide under the lap belt or be propelled into the seat belt.
Ensure your seat back is reclined no more than 30 degrees when the vehicle is moving.Calibrating Seats You can calibrate the driver seat.
This is useful if you find your seat range limited or your driver profile does not automatically adjust the seat for you.
Navigate to Controls  > Service  > Driver Seat, Steering & Mirrors Calibration  and driver seat during calibration.
Failure to do so may The seat, head support, seat belt, and airbags work together to maximize your safety.
Using these correctly ensures Position the seat so you can wear the seat belt correctly, while being as far away from the front airbag as possible: 1.
Sit upright with both feet on the floor and the seat back in 2.Make sure you can easily reach the pedals and that your arms are slightly bent when holding the steering wheel.. 3..
Place the shoulder section of the seat belt mid-way between your neck and your shoulder.
Fit the lap section of the belt tightly across your hips, not across your Model 3  seats include integrated head supports that cannot Model 3  has a split rear seat that can fold forward.Front and Rear Seats the amount of perceived noise and/or vibration coming from ensure the seat belt is unbuckled and there are no Before folding, remove items from the seats and the rear footwell.
To allow the rear seat backs to fold completely flat, To fold a rear seat, pull the corresponding lever and fold the purpose of storing or placing items.
Doing so exposes the low and high voltage connections, which can cause vehicle damage or serious injury.Raising Rear Seats Before raising a rear seat, make sure that the seat belts are Pull the seat back upward until it locks into place.
To confirm that the seat back is locked in the upright rearward.Failure to do so increases the risk of injury..
The front seats and the second row outboard seats include The rear center seat includes an adjustable head support that can be raised, lowered, or removed.
When occupied by a passenger that is not seated in a child safety seat, the head support should always be lifted and locked into position (so that the center is aligned with the center of the occupant's death in the event of a collision, ensure that head support is positioned correctly before sitting in, or operating, Model 3 .
Always lift and lock the head support in position before sitting in the rear center safety seat in the center seating position in the second To raise the head support, lift it until you hear it click into place.
Push down on the head support to ensure that it is To lower the head support, press and hold the button on the outer base of the right post and press the head support 2.
Press and hold the button on the outer base of the right 3.Insert a short, flat object (such as a small flat-head screwdriver) into the opening on the inside base of the 1..
With the front of the head support facing forward, insert both posts into the corresponding holes on the seat back.2.. Press down on the head support until it clicks into place.. 3..
Pull up on the head support to ensure that it is secure.
Failure to do so increases the risk of injury or death The front and rear seats operate at three levels from 3 use, individuals who have peripheral neuropathy, or mounted side airbags if a collision occurs.
Also, if the vehicle is equipped with an occupant detection system that is used to determine the status of the passenger Using seat belts and child safety seats is the most effective way to protect occupants if a collision occurs.
Therefore, wearing a seat belt is required by law in most jurisdictions.All seats are equipped with three-point inertia reel seat belts..
Inertia reel belts are automatically tensioned to allow occupants to move comfortably during normal driving conditions.
To securely hold child safety seats, all passenger seating positions are equipped with an automatic locking locks the belt into place until the seat belt is unbuckled (see The seat belt reel automatically tightens or locks to prevent movement of occupants if Model 3  experiences a force associated with hard acceleration, braking, cornering, or an You can temporarily disable a seat belt reminder associated with a rear seating position.
This is useful when you are carrying an object in a rear seat that triggers the seat belt reminder alert.
To disable the reminder, touch the associated seat on the seat belt reminder popup message that displays on the touchscreen when a seat belt reminder is active.
When a reminder is disabled, the seat belt reminder icon is replaced by a child seat icon, until the reminder is re-enabled by reminders in rear seating positions, these reminders cannot be disabled.
To cancel the reminder in an unoccupied seat when an object is detected, you must either fasten the seat 1.Ensure correct positioning of the seat.. See Correct position of the driver's seat.2..
Pull the seat belt out smoothly, ensuring the seat belt lies flat across the pelvis, chest and mid-point of your collar bone, between the neck and shoulder.
Ensure the seat belt is routed correctly and is not twisted.Never sit on the 3.. Insert the latch plate into the buckle and press together until you hear a click indicating it is locked in place.. 4..
Pull the seat belt to check that it is securely fastened.5..
Pull the diagonal part of the seat belt toward the reel to Model 3  is equipped with an adjustable shoulder anchor for each front seat to ensure that the seat belt can be positioned correctly.
The seat belt should lie flat across the mid-point of your collar bone while in the correct driving position  (see shoulder anchor if the seat belt is not positioned correctly: 1.
Press and hold the button on the shoulder anchor to 2.While holding the button, move the shoulder anchor up or down, as necessary, to correctly position the seat belt.. 3..
Release the button on the shoulder anchor so that it locks 4.
Without pressing the button, pull on the seat belt webbing and attempt to move the shoulder anchor downward to correctly and that the shoulder anchor is locked into position before driving.
Riding in a moving vehicle with shoulder anchor not locked into position can reduce the effectiveness of the seat belt in a collision.
Hold the seat belt near the buckle to prevent the seat belt from retracting too quickly, then press the button on the buckle.The seat belt retracts automatically..
Ensure there is no obstruction that prevents the seat belt from fully retracting.the seat belt should not hang loose.. If a seat belt does not fully retract, schedule a Service appointment..
Do not put the lap or shoulder sections of the seat belt over the abdominal area.Wear the lap section of the seat belt as low as possible across the hips, not the waist..
Position the shoulder portion of the seat belt between the breasts and to the side of the abdomen.
Consult your doctor for specific The front seat belts are equipped with pre ‑tensioners that work in conjunction with the airbags in a collision.
The pre‑tensioners automatically retract both the seat belt lower anchor and the upper shoulder webbing, reducing slack in both the lap and diagonal portions of the seat belts, resulting If the pre-tensioners and airbags did not activate in an impact, this does not mean they malfunctioned.
It usually means that the strength or type of force needed to activate The rear outboard seats are equipped with shoulder pre- tensioners to retract the seat belt webbing to reduce forward tensioner assembly.
Doing so can cause damage that interferes with the proper functionality of the seat belt collision, have the airbags, seat belt pre-tensioners To confirm that seat belts are operating correctly, perform 1.
With the seat belt fastened, give the webbing nearest the buckle a quick and forceful pull.The buckle should remain 2..
With the seat belt fastened, give the webbing closest to the door a quick and forceful pull.The permanent seat belt attachment should remain securely locked.. Never 3..
With the seat belt unfastened, unreel the webbing to its limit.Check that unreeling is free from snags, and visually webbing to retract, checking that retraction is smooth and 4..
With the webbing half unreeled, hold the tongue plate and If a seat belt fails any of these tests, repair immediately.Do not allow occupants to sit in a seat with a failed seat belt..
For information about cleaning seat belts, see Seat Belts  on at all times, even if driving for a very short distance.
Failure to do so increases the risk of injury or death if a Always follow the child safety seat manufacturer's An improperly worn seat belt increases the risk of eyeglasses, etc.
The pressure from the seat belt on one occupant only.It is dangerous to put a seat belt around a child being carried on an occupant’s lap..
must be inspected or replaced by Tesla or a qualified repair facility, even if damage to the assembly is not components with any chemicals, liquids, grit, dirt or cleaning products.
If a seat belt fails to retract or latch into the buckle, it must be replaced immediately.Use adjusted to remove slack..
A seat belt with slack greatly interfere with the operation of a seat belt, or that can convenience products that attach to the seat belts.be fully retracted and not hanging loose..
If a seat belt does not fully retract, schedule a Service appointment.serviceable parts and may contain pyrotechnics..
Do not disassemble, remove, or replace components.Seat Belts Your Model 3  seat belts are designed for adults and larger children.
You must restrain infants and small children in the second row seats only, and you must use a suitable child safety seat appropriate for the child’s age, weight, and size.
Doing so can cause the driver's seat to push against the child, especially when a child is seated in a forward-facing child seat or booster seat.
Do not rely on Model 3  to recognize or accommodate a child seated in the second row while using Model 3  has an occupancy sensor in the front passenger seat that controls the status of the passenger front airbag (see When driving with a child seat on the front passenger seat, always double-check the status of the passenger To protect an adult subsequently occupying the front passenger seat, check to verify that the passenger front passenger seat.
If the passenger front airbag fails to disable with a child seat in position, place the child and child restraint system in the rear seat and use the mobile app to schedule service immediately.
All children age 12 and under should ride in the second and third row seats.Always use a child safety seat suitable for a young child’s age and weight..
The following table is based on child safety seat recommendations determined by the National Age Birth to 1 year* Over 1 year* 4 years and older, and less than Seat position Rear facing only* Forward facing* Forward facing belt and upper tether strap.***Secure the booster seat using * Many child safety seats currently available allow children to ride rear-facing using the child safety seat’s integrated 5-point harness for a longer period of time BASED UPON SPECIFIC HEIGHT AND WEIGHT LIMITS.
Keep your child in a rear facing seat for as long as possible.** ISOFIX  is the international standard for attachment points for child safety seats  in passenger cars..
The system has other regional names in Canada.It has also been called the "Universal Child Safety Seat System" or UCSSS .. *** Subject to instructions provided by the child safety seat manufacturer..
**** In the center seating position, the vehicle's head support can be adjusted if the booster seat is not equipped with an integrated head Model 3  is driven.
To check the child passenger safety laws for states in the U.S., go to: http://www.ghsa.org/html/ If a child is too large to fit into a child safety seat, but too small to safely use the standard seat belts, use a booster seat appropriate for the child’s age and size.
Carefully follow the manufacturer’s instructions to secure the booster seat.wear the seat belt like an adult..
Do not extend the seat belt webbing fully to engage the automatic locking There are two general methods used to install child safety • Seat belt retained - these seats are secured using the • LATCH  retained - these seats attach to anchor bars built Check the child safety seat manufacturer’s instructions and the table provided in this document to determine which installation method to use.
Some child safety seats can be installed using either method.
Always follow the child safety First, make sure that the child safety seat is appropriate for Avoid dressing the child in bulky clothing and do not place any objects between the child and the restraint system.
To securely hold child safety seats, all passenger seating positions are equipped with an automatic locking retractor for a typical adult occupant, locks the belt into place until the seat belt is unbuckled and the webbing is fully retracted.
The ALR mechanism operates as a ratchet, winding in slack and preventing the seat belt from extending any further until it has been completely rewound.
When installing a child safety seat, engage the belt's automatic locking retractor by pulling the seat belt webbing until it is fully  extended.
The ALR system engages only when the seat belt is at its maximum booster seats in which a large child is restrained by the vehicle's seat belts directly, and therefore not using a child the seat belt is unbuckled and fully retracted.
The belt can then be worn as a normal belt, sliding freely in and out and locking tight only in an emergency.
Once disengaged, the belt must be fully extended to re-engage the locking mechanism whenever you install a child safety seat.
Always follow the detailed instructions provided by the child safety seat manufacturer.General guidelines are provided below.1..
Place the child safety seat in Model 3 , and fully extend the seat belt.Route and buckle the seat belt in accordance with the child safety seat manufacturer’s instructions.. 2..
Allow the seat belt to retract, and remove all slack in the seat belt while firmly pushing the child safety seat into the 3.
Once all slack has been removed, forcefully pull the seat belt webbing to confirm that the automatic locking retracting the seat belt webbing.
Once disengaged, the belt must be fully extended to re-engage the locking 4.
If the seat belt retained child safety seat has an upper tether, attach it to the back of the seat (see Attaching Lower LATCH  anchors are provided in the second row outboard seats.
The anchors are located between the seat's back rest and rear cushion.The exact location of each anchor is identified by a child safety seat identification button, illustrated below..
The button is located on the seat back, directly above its associated anchor.Child Safety Seats In the second row, install LATCH  child safety seats in the outboard seating positions only.
Use only a seat belt retained To install a LATCH  child safety seat, slide the safety seat latches onto the anchor bars until they click into place.
Carefully read and follow the instructions provided by the Once installed, test the security of the installation before seating a child.
Attempt to twist the child safety seat from side to side and try to pull it away from the seat, then check seats or booster seats that have an integrated safety belt in situations where the combined weight of the child plus the situations, use the safety belt instead.Child Safety Seats If an upper tether strap is provided, attach its hook to the anchor point located on the shelf behind the rear seats.
the instructions provided by the manufacturer of the To access an anchor point, press down on the back of its For dual-strap tethers, position a strap on each side of the For single-strap tethers at the outboard seating positions, route the strap over the outside-facing side of the head support (same side of the head support as the seat belt If routing the strap over the outside-facing side of the head support is not possible (such as there is not enough slack in the strap), route the strap under the head support.
For a single-strap tether in the rear center seating position, and route the strap over the top center of the head support.Child Safety Seats Before seating a child, always make sure the child safety seat 1.
Hold the child safety seat by the belt path and try to slide the safety seat from side to side and front to back.Tighten the belt or reconnect the LATCH  retained child 3..
If you are unable to reduce slack, try a different seat front passenger seat even if you are using a child safety seat.This seat has an airbag in front of it..
Although this airbag is disabled when Model 3  detects a lightweight passenger, do not rely on technology to secured in vehicle seats by lap belts or the lap belt endangered in a crash if their child restraints are not are safer when properly restrained in the rear seating sit independently.
Up to the age of two, a child's spine and neck are not sufficiently developed to avoid injury an adult's lap.
All children should be restrained in an all instructions provided in this document and by the safety seat using the seat’s integrated 5-point harness belt that is being used to install a child safety seat or child's head is supported and the child’s seat belt is properly adjusted and fastened.
The shoulder portion of the belt must be away from the face and neck, and anchor point.In a collision, one anchor point may be withstand only those loads imposed by correctly fitted child restraints..
Under no circumstances are they to be used for adult seat belts, harnesses, or for attaching involved in a collision.Have the seat inspected or positions..
All occupants, including the driver, should always wear their seat belts whether or not an airbag is also provided at their seating position to minimize the risk of severe injury or death in the event of a crash.
Airbags inflate when sensors detect an impact that exceeds deployment thresholds.
These thresholds are designed to predict the severity of a crash in time for the airbags to help protect the vehicle's occupants.
Airbags inflate instantly with considerable force accompanied by a loud noise.
The inflated bag, together with the seat belts, limits movement of Front airbags are not ordinarily designed to inflate in rear collisions, rollovers, side collisions and when braking heavily or driving over bumps and potholes.
Likewise, front airbags may not inflate in all frontal collisions, such as minor front collisions, underride collisions, or minor impacts with narrow damage can occur to the vehicle without the airbags inflating and, conversely, a relatively small amount of structural damage can cause airbags to inflate.
Therefore, the external appearance of the vehicle after a collision does not represent whether or not the front airbags should have inflated.
accommodate a person with disabilities in a way that may affect the airbag system, use the mobile app to • Front airbags: The front airbags are designed to reduce injuries if larger children or adults are riding in the front seating a child on the front passenger seat (if permitted in • Knee airbags: Knee airbags are designed to work together with front airbags in specific scenarios.
When deployed, the knee airbags limit the forward motion of the front seat positioning the occupants so that the front airbags work • Seat-mounted side airbags: A seat-mounted side airbag in the front seats helps protect the pelvis and the thorax region of the torso.
The seat-mounted side airbags on both the impacted and non-impacted side of the vehicle will inflate in the event of severe side impact or severe offset frontal impact.• Curtain airbags: Curtain airbags help protect the head.
Curtain airbags on both the impacted and non-impacted side of the vehicle will inflate only if a severe side impact or severe offset frontal impact occurs, or if the vehicle The status of the passenger front airbag displays in the top After this check, the airbag indicator turns off.
If the airbag system detects a fault in any of the previously mentioned case contact Tesla service immediately.Do not drive the vehicle until the airbag system is inspected by Tesla..
Model 3  has an occupancy sensor in the front passenger seat that controls the status of the front airbag.when inflating the passenger front airbag would be unnecessary or potentially harmful..
Child in a booster seat OFF or ON PASSENGER AIRBAG OFF or * If the passenger airbag status indicator does not match the situation, do not use the seat.The passenger must ride in a different seat..
Use accurate status of the front passenger airbag.As a result, when you first power on Model 3 , even in situations when it should seconds to display the status, PASS AIRBAG OFF..
If it fails to do so, use the mobile app to schedule a service appointment and do not seat a child in the front passenger seating position.
To make sure the sensing system can correctly detect occupancy status, eliminate the following: • Objects wedged between the seat back and seat cushion.
• Aftermarket items attached to, or sitting on or between, the seat and occupant including but not limited to covers, mats, These conditions can interfere with the occupancy sensor.
If you have eliminated the above possibilities, and the airbag status is still incorrect, ask passengers to ride in the rear seats and use the mobile app to schedule a service appointment to have the described, use the mobile app to schedule a service appointment immediately.
responsibility to ensure that the passenger front airbag is OFF.Never seat a child in a rear facing safety seat in the front passenger seat with an active airbag..
DEATH or SERIOUS INJURY to the child can occur.Per recommendations by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, all occupants age 12 and under must ride in the rear seats..
collision occurs.It can also reduce the accuracy of the Occupant Classification System, if equipped..
To help ensure an occupant in the front passenger seat can • Wear a seat belt.• Sit upright on the center of the seat cushion, with shoulders resting against the seat back and legs extended • Remain positioned on the seat cushion and not lift their weight off the seat (for example, by pushing their feet against the floor or pressing on the center console or • Never wear thick, wet, or bulky clothing (such as ski wear In addition to the items listed above, the following situations can interfere with the accuracy of the occupant classification • Placing a radio transmitter (for example, a hunting radio or • Placing an AC/DC inverter, or a device that is being powered by the inverter (for example, a cell phone, tablet, on a car seat when a child restraint system is present.
• Incorrectly placing a child restraint system so that the entire lower section is not positioned against the seat • Objects lodged under the seat or wedged between the • Aftermarket items attached to or placed between the seat and the occupant, such as covers, mats, blankets, etc.
These conditions can interfere with the occupancy sensor.
If you have eliminated the above possibilities, and the airbag status is still incorrect, instruct passengers to ride in the rear seats and use the mobile app to schedule a service Administration) recommendations that all occupants age 12 operation of the passenger front airbags only.
The side adversely affect the Occupant Classification System on or off as expected, do not seat a passenger in the front passenger seat.
Use the mobile app to schedule a so could restrict deployment of the seat-mounted side airbags if a collision occurs.
It can also reduce the Incorrect seating position - the passenger's feet must be on Incorrect seating position - the passenger must not slide Incorrect seating position - the passenger must not recline the backrest to a laying down position when the vehicle is moving:Airbags released.
This powder can irritate the skin and should be thoroughly flushed from the eyes and from any cuts After inflation, the airbags deflate to provide a gradual cushioning effect for the occupants and to ensure the If airbags have inflated, or if your vehicle has been in a collision, your vehicle requires servicing before it will power up.
In addition, your airbags, seat belt pre-tensioners and any associated components must be checked, and if necessary, replaced.
Use the mobile app to schedule a service In a collision, in addition to the airbags inflating: • United States only: Your vehicle automatically dials 911 if Controls  > Safety  > Automatic 911 calls  is enabled.
Cancellation instructions as well as a countdown timer involved, doors may not unlock in a collision and/or damage may prevent them from opening.
In such cases, the door may need to be opened using the interior manual release, or other means of extrication (for example, exiting through another voltage may be disabled and you will be unable to power up and drive.
Use the mobile app to schedule a service always wear their seat belts, whether or not an airbag is also provided at their seating position, to minimize the risk of severe injury or death in the event of a collision.
arms over the airbag module, as an inflating airbag can so could restrict deployment of the seat-mounted side airbags if a collision occurs.It can also reduce the force, which can cause injury..
To limit injuries, ensure that occupants are wearing seat belts and are correctly passenger seat unless permitted by regulations in your market region.
Follow all regulations in your region for the appropriate way to seat a child based on the child's weight, size, and age.
The safest place to seat infants and young children is in a rear seating position.
Seating an infant or child in a rear-facing child restraint system system on a seat with an operational airbag in front of it.
Doing so can cause injury or death if the airbag against doors or windows.
Doing so can cause injury if operation of an airbag by placing feet, knees or any the front airbags, the side of the front seats, the headliner at the side of the vehicle, or any other airbag cover that could interfere with inflation of an airbag.
These include but are not limited to: steering wheel covers, decals, seat cushions, pillows, etc.
Objects can cause serious injury if the vehicle is in a collision severe The Tesla mobile app allows you to communicate with Model exhaustive list of the functions available on the Tesla mobile app.
To ensure access to new and improved features, download updated versions of the mobile app as they To set up the Tesla mobile app to communicate with your 2.
Log in to the Tesla mobile app by entering your Tesla 3.Enable mobile access to your Model 3  by touching 4..
Turn your phone's Bluetooth setting ON and ensure that Bluetooth is turned on within your phone's global settings for the Tesla mobile app.
For example, on your phone, navigate to Settings, choose the Tesla mobile app, and Your phone and vehicle must both be actively connected to cellular service or Wi-Fi for the mobile app to communicate with your vehicle remotely.
Tesla recommends that you always have a functional physical key readily available if parking in an area with limited or absent cellular service, such Your vehicle also supports mobile app commands over Bluetooth when your phone is paired to Model 3  as a key and Tesla due to a non-warranty issue, such as having limited cellular connectivity and having no secondary key available, You can also use the mobile app on your Apple Watch.
• An Apple Watch Series 6, Apple Watch SE 2, or Apple Watch Ultra 1 or newer with watchOS 11.0 or newer.
Before using the Tesla mobile app on your Apple Watch, ensure that your iPhone and Apple Watch are updated to the latest available software version.
To add the Tesla mobile app to your Apple Watch, use the Watch app on your iPhone.You can use the Tesla Apple Watch app to lock and unlock In addition, you can use your Apple Watch as a key the same When both your phone and the vehicle have internet service, • Enable or disable the heating or air conditioning and • Check your vehicle's charging information.
Charging details also appear when a charging cable is plugged in.
that the Battery is actively heating up (including while • View your vehicle’s odometer, VIN, and current software Media settings appear on the mobile app to pause, play, rewind, fast forward, and adjust the volume of the media currently playing in the vehicle.
You may need to enable Media settings by touching Audio Settings  > Options  > Allow If your vehicle is Supercharging, you can also see information about your charging session as a Live Activity directly on 4.45.0 or newer and an iPhone with iOS 17.2 or newer.
For supported video sources, send videos to Tesla Theater by sharing the link through the mobile app.Navigate to the movie, show, or video you want to play on your phone and touch the share button..
Share the video with the Tesla app and it appears on the touchscreen if Model 3  is in Park.
CAUTION:  If you want to lock the doors while inside outside, close the doors and use the lock icon on the Otherwise, because your phone is enabled as a key, the doors will unlock when the exterior door handles are pulled even if you press the lock icon on your mobile app.
If you open the door from the inside, that will once again allow the doors to be opened from the outside so long as the phone key is detected (see Phone Key  on In the Profile tab located at the top corner, you can: • Switch to a different vehicle associated with your Tesla • Manage your account information and view your order • View and customize notifications you receive under the Settings tab, such as Calendar sync, when your security alarm has been triggered, charging updates, and new software updates.
You can start updates from afar and • Flash the lights or honk the horn to find where Model 3  is • Open and close your garage door if your vehicle has a You can check the interior temperature and heat or cool the • Enable or disable Defrost Car , which helps melt snow, ice, and frost on the windshield, windows, and mirrors, by • Enable Cabin Overheat Protection , which prevents the cabin from getting too warm in hot ambient conditions.
You can choose whether you want the A/C or just the fan to run when the temperature in the cabin exceeds 105° F • Precondition the cabin to your desired temperature and turn on or off the steering wheel  and seat heaters (if equipped).Using the mobile app to precondition Model 3  also warms the Battery as needed.
The mobile app will notify you once your and date of manufacture, using the mobile app to defrost Model 3  also thaws ice on the charge port latch.
This is useful in extremely cold weather or icy conditions in which the charge port latch can freeze in place, preventing you from Locate Model 3  with directions, or track its movement across You can also enter an address to navigate or plan a trip directly in your Tesla mobile app and then send the trip to Model 3 .
The Tesla mobile app selects a route and provides charging times to minimize the amount of time you spend driving and charging.
Touch Edit Trip  to change or reorganize Touch Set Departure Energy  to specify your expected energy Charging stops can also be added or adjusted as needed, depending on the departure energy.
For more information, You can park or retrieve Model 3  using Dumb Summon  or Enable scheduled charging or departure, and precondition 171 for more information.
Scheduled charging or departure You can also schedule a light show for a future time.
For more information about light show, see Theater, Arcade, and • Enable or disable Sentry Mode (see How to Use Sentry notifications when the vehicle's driving speed is within • Watch and share Dashcam and Sentry Mode clips from View and purchase the latest upgrades available for your View roadside resources and request roadside assistance Assistance, see Contacting Tesla Roadside Assistance  on Add and remove access permission for an additional driver Additional drivers can either use a previously registered Tesla Account or use the app to create a new Tesla Account.
To add an additional driver, in the Tesla mobile app from the vehicle home screen, go to Security  > Add Driver  and follow To remove access, use the mobile app and go to Security  > Manage Drivers  and follow the onscreen instructions.Mobile App Wi-Fi is available as a data connection method and is often faster than cellular data networks.
Connecting to Wi-Fi is especially useful in areas with limited or no cellular connectivity.
To ensure fast, reliable delivery of software and map updates, Tesla recommends leaving Model 3  connected to a Wi-Fi network whenever possible (for example, when 1.Touch Controls  > Wi-Fi ..
Model 3  begins to scan and display detected Wi-Fi networks that are within range.list, move Model 3  closer to the access point or consider check which channels are supported in your region.. 2..
Find and tap the Wi-Fi network you want to use in Searching for Wi-Fi Networks  or add it manually in Add touch Confirm .
When successfully connected, the Wi-Fi network shows in Known Wi-Fi Networks  along with a green check.
Whenever the network is within range, captive Wi-Fi networks (a captive Wi-Fi, commonly used by public hotspots, requires you to access a custom web portal and agree to terms of service prior to allowing you within range, Model 3  connects to the one most recently Diagnostics  offers more information on your Wi-Fi connection, as well as connection improvement tips.
To access, navigate to Wi-Fi  > Diagnostics  or find it below the progress bar while a software update downloads or installs.
Instead of a Wi-Fi network, you can also use a mobile hotspot connecting to your hotspot, select Remain Connected in Drive , if you want to keep the connection active while you are If your vehicle's Wi-Fi connection is slow or it fails to • On the touchscreen, check the number of Wi-Fi icon bars Wi-Fi access point closer to the vehicle to improve the • Restart the touchscreen (see Restarting the Touchscreen • Remove the Wi-Fi connection and reconnect.
Touch Controls  > Wi-Fi , select your network and Forget Network Before using your phone or other Bluetooth device with Model 3 , you must pair it.
Pairing sets up Model 3  to communicate with supported Bluetooth-capable devices.You can pair up to ten Bluetooth phones..
Unless you've specified a specific phone as a Priority Device , or if the phone specified as Priority Device  is not within range, Model 3 always connects to the last phone that was used (provided it is within range).
To connect to a different phone, see play media from it, etc.
You must also pair it as described communication over distances of up to approximately 30 feet time but only allows two devices to connect simultaneously If you must leave your phone in the vehicle, disable Pairing allows you to use your Bluetooth-capable phone hands-free to make and receive phone calls, access your contact list, recent calls, etc.
It also allows you to play media files from your phone.Once a phone is paired, Model 3  can 1.. To pair a phone or a Bluetooth device, sit inside Model 3 2..
Unlock your phone and enable Bluetooth (typically in Bluetooth Settings for the remainder of the procedure.3..
On the touchscreen, touch Controls  > Bluetooth  to automatically start Bluetooth scanning for new devices.4.Wait for your phone to be listed and touch Connect .. 5..
Check that the number displayed on your phone matches the number on the touchscreen.Then, on your phone, 6..
If prompted on your phone, specify whether you want to allow Model 3  to access your personal information, such as calendar, contacts and media files (see Importing Model 3  lists your phone under Controls  > Bluetooth  > To change the settings of a paired device, go to Controls  > Bluetooth  > Paired Devices  and expand the dropdown next to If you are experiencing issues importing or connecting to You can toggle Reduce Fan Speed During Calls  so the fan speed automatically lowers when you are on a call.
Auto  must be enabled in your climate controls (see Operating Climate Once a phone is paired, go to Controls  > Bluetooth  > Paired Devices  and expand the dropdown next to the device's name to specify whether you want to allow access to your phone’s contacts, recent calls and text messages.
If you allow access, you can use the phone app to make calls and send messages to people in your list of contacts and on your recent calls list Before contacts can be imported, you may need to either set your phone to allow syncing, or respond to a popup on your phone to confirm that you want to sync contacts.
This varies depending on the type of phone you are using.For details, refer to the documentation provided with your phone..
If you are having trouble importing contacts or pairing with If you want to disconnect your phone or Bluetooth device, but keep it paired, touch Disconnect  in your phone's Bluetooth settings dropdown on the touchscreen ( Controls  > Bluetooth  > Paired Devices  > Y our phone ).
If you no longer want to use your device with Model 3 , touch Forget Device and follow the instructions.
Once you forget a device, you must pair it again if you want to use it with Model 3  (see as a key.
To forget an authenticated phone, see Managing Model 3  automatically connects to a phone that you designated as Priority Device .
If you have not set a phone as a priority, Model 3  connects to the last phone to which is was connected, provided it is within operating range and has Bluetooth turned on.
If the last phone is not within range, it attempts to connect with the next phone that it has been To connect to a different phone, touch Controls  > Bluetooth  > Paired Devices .
Select the phone you want to connect to, then touch Connect .If the phone you want to connect to is not listed, you must pair the phone..
See Pairing a Phone or When connected, the Bluetooth settings screen displays the Bluetooth symbol next to the phone's name to show that to seamlessly connect your smartphone to Model 3 .
Due to several potential factors, Bluetooth or BLE may sometimes disconnect or experience issues in the pairing process.
Connecting to Bluetooth allows your vehicle to use phone functions such as audio, phone calls, calendars, text Try the following to troubleshoot Bluetooth, starting with Bluetooth may not connect due to settings and updates on • Enable Bluetooth on your phone.
If already enabled, • Charge your phone; if your phone battery is too low, it • Pair your device properly.
If already paired, try unpairing • Update your phone to the latest software provided by the • Check that your vehicle's sound system is selected as the • Ensure your phone's settings allow for Bluetooth (ex: data • Turn your phone off and on again.• Ensure location permissions set to “Always On” for the • Confirm the Tesla mobile app is up to date on software.
• Verify you're logged into the Tesla mobile app while using • Ensure the Tesla app is running in the background.
• Double check that you have completely set up your profile in the mobile app and properly configured your settings.
Your vehicle's settings may affect its ability to pair with your • Charge Model 3 : If the vehicle Battery is too low, you may • Update vehicle software and make sure it is always up to date.
Check for new software updates by navigating to • Restart the touchscreen.
See Restarting the Touchscreen If Bluetooth still does not work, unpair from your vehicle AND For BLE phone key issues, when in the vehicle, navigate to Controls  > Locks  and remove your phone as "Phone as Key".
Then set it back up again.
But only do this while you are in the vehicle and have a reliable back up key available (such as a • Calls : Displays recent calls in chronological order with the • Messages : Displays message in chronological order with the most recent message listed first.
You can view, send, and receive text messages.
Instead of typing a text message, touch the microphone button on the right side safety of occupants as well as other road users, do not view or send text messages when the vehicle is • Contacts : Contacts are listed in alphabetical order and can be sorted by first name or last name.
You can also choose a letter on the right side of the list to quickly scroll to the names that begin with the selected character.
• Favorites : Displays the contacts from your phone that you • Calendar : Displays calendar entries from your phone (see number or an address, you can make a phone call, or navigate to a destination, by touching the corresponding • Speaking a voice command (see Voice Commands  on • Touching a phone number shown in a list in the phone app • Using the Model 3  on-screen dialer in the Phone app.
call by dialing the number or selecting the contact directly When your phone receives an incoming call, the touchscreen displays  the caller’s number or name (if the caller is in your phone’s contact list and Model 3  has access to your Touch one of the options on the touchscreen to Answer  or Ignore  the call.
Depending on the phone you are using and what speakers you used for your most recent call, your phone may prompt you to choose which speakers you want to use driving.
Using or programming a phone while driving, even with Bluetooth enabled, can result in serious of phones while driving, including, but not limited to, When a call is in progress, the call displays on the touchscreen.
To adjust the call volume, roll the left scroll button during a call.Tilt the left scroll button left to mute/ 1.. Ensure your phone is paired to Model 3  as a phone key .. 2..
Ensure you are logged into the Tesla mobile app.3.. In your Tesla mobile app, touch Profile  > Settings  > features, it is recommended that you use the most recent 4..
On your phone key, go to Settings  and allow access/give permission to share your calendar with the Tesla mobile automatically) send calendar data from your phone to If a calendar event includes an address, a navigation arrow displays to indicate that you can touch the address to navigate to the event's location.Phone, Calendar, and Web Conferencing If an event has a uniquely specified address and takes place within two hours of you entering your vehicle and preparing to drive, Model 3  automatically routes you to the event's phone numbers, the information icon shows a phone icon and the calendar displays the first phone number found.
Touch to initiate a phone call.
You can also initiate a phone call by web link, you can touch the link to open it in the Web vehicle is “temporarily parked” on a public road (such as when the vehicle is parked along the curb or in a follow all applicable laws while driving, including, but not limited to, laws that require hands-free operation at myQ is a smart garage control system that works seamlessly with Model 3 , and allows you to remotely monitor and control your garage door from the vehicle's touchscreen or a paired phone.
This is convenient if you forget to close your garage door, want to allow friends and family inside, or need to open linking myQ with Model 3 , the garage door can detect your have safety stop and reverse features.
Using a device without these safety features increases the risk of 1.Your garage door must be myQ compatible.. Use the myQ 2.. Ensure your garage is Wi-Fi compatible..
myQ uses Wi-Fi to communicate with your smart phone and vehicle.Some garages will have a Wi-Fi or myQ symbol on the hub..
Your garage must have a strong Wi-Fi signal to control and to purchase an external myQ hub to use this feature.3.. Download the myQ app from your smart phone's app store..
Use the app to set up your account information and pair the garage to your phone.myQ requires a paid 4..
Check that your vehicle is running the latest available software version and has Wi-Fi or LTE connectivity.5..
Touch the garage icon at the top of the touchscreen or navigate  to Controls  > Locks  > myQ Connected Garage  > Link Account  and follow the instructions to pair the garage with Model 3 .
Once paired, monitoring and controlling the garage becomes available on the touchscreen, where you For more information, questions, troubleshooting assistance, and options selected at time of purchase, some vehicles are not equipped with a HomeLink Universal Transceiver.
Transceiver with a device that does not have safety these safety features increases the risk of injury or HomeLink supports three different transmit modes, which is how your vehicle and the RF device communicate.
Selecting • Standard Mode : Use Standard Mode if your RF device is equipped with a remote control that must be used to operate the device (for example, a remote-controlled • D-Mode or UR-Mode : Use D-Mode or UR-Mode if the RF device does not have a remote control, and the receiver has a "Learn" button (may also be called "Program" or "Smart").
D-Mode and UR-Mode function similarly in that Model 3  communicates directly with the device's receiver whereas UR-Mode is popular in Europe, the Middle East, Each of your devices can be set to a different mode.
For example, your garage door can be set to Standard Mode, your front gate can be set to D-Mode, etc.
To change a transmit mode, touch the HomeLink icon at the top of the Controls  screen  and select the device you want to change.Then, select Program  and choose the desired mode for your device..
Confirm by touching Set Mode  and follow the For older vehicles, changing the mode for one device changes the mode for all devices, so be careful when changing transmit modes.
Devices not compatible with your selected mode may not work.Touch the HomeLink icon at the top of the touchscreen, then touch Change Transmit Mode ..
device to determine which mode is compatible with your 1.Park Model 3  so that the front bumper is in front of the make sure that the device is clear of any people or 2..
Check that the device's remote control has a healthy battery.Tesla recommends replacing the battery in the device's remote control before Programming HomeLink.. 3..
Touch the HomeLink icon at the top of the Controls 5.On the HomeLink screen, enter a name for the device, 6.. Choose the mode you wish to use (Standard, D-Mode, or 7..
Touch Start  and follow the onscreen instructions.programming the device, remember that this is a time- sensitive step..
After pressing the Learn/Program/Smart button on the device's remote control, you have only approximately 30 seconds to return to your vehicle and press Continue , and then press the trained HomeLink device name twice.
Consider having an assistant to ensure you can complete this step within 30 seconds.8.. Once your device is programmed, touch Save  to complete 9.. Ensure HomeLink works as expected..
In some cases, you may need to repeat the programming process multiple Once programmed, you can operate the device by touching its corresponding HomeLink icon on the touchscreen.
HomeLink remembers the location of your programmed devices.When you approach a known location, the HomeLink control on the touchscreen automatically appears..
When you touchscreen when Model 3  detects a programmed HomeLink device within range, and the touchscreen is not already touchscreen, you can automate the device to open as you 1.
Touch the HomeLink icon at the top of the Controls screen , touch HomeLink Settings , then choose the device 2.
Adjust the device's HomeLink settings as needed: ◦ Select the Auto-open when arriving  checkbox if you want the device to open as you approach.◦ Touch the arrows to specify the distance you want ◦ Select the Auto-close when leaving  checkbox if you ◦ Select the Auto-fold mirrors  checkbox if you want checkbox if you want Model 3  to sound a chime when a signal has been sent to open or close the device.
HomeLink remembers the vehicle’s GPS location at the time of pairing and uses this to determine the vehicle’s whereabouts in relation to the HomeLink device.
HomeLink does not detect and differentiate between opening and closing (ex: if Auto-open is triggered and the door is already open, the door will close) but typically determines whether to Auto-Open:  Detects when Model 3  approaches the garage Auto-open initiates so long as the approaching vehicle is in Drive and HomeLink is enabled.
HomeLink does not trigger Auto-Close:  HomeLink triggers when the Model 3  shifts from In situations where you don't want the device to automatically open or close, touch Skip Auto-Open  or Skip Auto-Close  at If you experience situations in which you sometimes drive up to your HomeLink device and it doesn't open, or the touchscreen does not display a notification as you approach a programmed device, you may need to reset the device's location.
To do so, park as close as possible to the HomeLink the Controls  screen .
Touch the name of the device you want To delete a HomeLink device, touch the HomeLink icon at the top of the Controls  screen , then touch HomeLink Settings .
Touch the name of the device you want to delete, then touch HomeLink settings, along with all other personal data (saved addresses, music favorites, imported contacts, etc.).
See In Standard Mode, Model 3  records the RF signal from your instructs you to stand in front of the vehicle, point the device's remote control at the front bumper, and press and hold the button until the headlights flash.
When the headlights flash, Model 3  has learned the remote control and you can touch Continue  on the touchscreen.If the headlights • Check the batteries in the remote control..
It is a good idea to replace the batteries before you start programming.
• Ensure you are standing in front of Model 3  with the device's remote control positioned within two inches (five • Press and hold the button on your device's remote control until the headlights flash.
In some cases you must hold the button on the remote control for up to three minutes.instead of one long duration press..
If you are unsuccessful after multiple attempts of using long presses, try repeated In D-Mode and UR-Mode, the device’s receiver learns Model 3.
The touchscreen instructs you to press the "Learn" button receiver.If this does not work, refer to the following • Park Model 3  with its bumper as close as possible to the garage door, gate, etc..
that you are trying to program.• Make sure you are pressing the receiver's Learn/Program/ Smart button..
For instructions on how to put the receiver into learning mode, refer to the product details provided with your RF device that you are trying to program.
• If you see a screen called "Train the receiver" while programming the device, remember that this is a time- sensitive step.
After pressing the Learn/Program/Smart button on the device's remote control or receiver, you only have approximately 30 seconds to return to your vehicle, press Continue , then press the trained HomeLink device name twice.
Consider having someone assist you with this step.• Most devices stay in learning mode for only three to five minutes.
Immediately after pressing the device's Learn/ Program/Smart button, follow the instructions displayed For additional assistance or compatibility questions, contact When you open a door to enter Model 3 , the touchscreen powers on  and you can operate all controls.
To drive Model 3 : 1.Press the brake pedal  - Model 3  powers on and is ready to 2..
Select a drive mode  - move the drive stalk down for Drive Everything you need to know when driving Model 3  displays If Model 3  does not detect a key when you press the brake (a key fob or phone key is not detected or two minutes have passed since you used the key card), the touchscreen displays a message telling you that driving requires If you see this message, place the key card behind the cup holders  where the RFID transmitter can read it.
The two- minute authentication period restarts and you can start A number of factors can affect whether Model 3  can detect a phone key or key fob (for example, the device's battery is low or dead and is no longer able to communicate using Always keep your phone key, key fob, or a key card with you.
After driving, your key is needed to restart Model 3  after it powers off.
And when you leave Model 3 , you must bring your key with you to lock Model 3 , either manually or When you finish driving, shift into Park by pressing the button on the end of the drive stalk.
When you leave Model 3 with your phone key and key fob , it powers off automatically, Model 3  also powers off automatically after being in Park for 30 minutes, even if you are sitting in the driver’s seat.
Although usually not needed, you can power off Model 3 while sitting in the driver’s seat, provided the vehicle is not moving.Touch Controls  > Safety  > Power Off ..
Model 3 automatically powers back on again if you press the brake determines that you are exiting the vehicle (for example, the driver's seat belt is unbuckled and the vehicle is almost at a standstill).
If you shift into Neutral, Model 3  shifts into Park when you open the door to exit.
To keep Model 3  in Neutral, you will need to activate Tow Mode  (see Instructions for You can power cycle Model 3  if it demonstrates unusual unusual behavior, reboot it before you power cycle the 2.
On the touchscreen, touch Controls  > Safety  > Power Off .3.. Wait for at least two minutes without interacting with the vehicle.. Do not open the doors, touch the brake pedal, 4..
After two minutes, press the brake pedal or open the door CAUTION:  Avoid getting excess hand sanitizer, lotion, sunscreen, and other products directly on the steering To adjust the steering wheel , touch Controls  and touch the Use the left scroll button on the steering wheel  to move the • To adjust the height/tilt angle of the steering wheel , roll • To move the steering wheel  closer to you, or further away from you, press the left scroll button to the left or right.
You can adjust the feel and sensitivity of the steering system 1.On the touchscreen, touch Controls  > Dynamics  > ◦ Light  - Reduces the effort required to turn the steering wheel ..
In town, Model 3  feels easier to drive and park.◦ Standard  - Tesla believes that this setting offers the ◦ Heavy  - Increases the effort required to turn the steering wheel ..
When driving at higher speeds, Model A scroll button is located on each side of the steering wheel .Use your thumb to press this button to the right or left.. You ◦ Control the volume..
Press the scroll button to mute/ increase the volume or down to decrease the volume.
navigation instructions or phone calls based on what is ◦ Push the scroll button to the right to go to the next playing).
Push the scroll button to the left to return to ◦ Adjust the position of the exterior mirrors (see ◦ Adjust the angle of the headlights (see Headlight ◦ Speak a voice command.
Press the button to initiate a ◦ When using Traffic-Aware Cruise Control , adjust your set speed and the distance you want to maintain from a vehicle traveling ahead of you (see Traffic-Aware backlit in low ambient lighting conditions.
To turn this backlighting on or off, touch Controls  > Lights  > Steering To restart the touchscreen, press and hold both scroll buttons until after the touchscreen turns black.
See You can also customize what you want the left scroll button to control, such as Climate or Dashcam status.
To customize, hold down the left scroll button and navigate the menu on the To warm up the steering wheel, touch the fan icon on the touchscreen to display climate controls (see Adjusting steering wheel icon.
When on, radiant heat keeps the To sound the horn, press and hold the center pad on the Adjust the exterior mirrors by touching Controls  > Mirrors .
Press the left scroll button on the steering wheel  to choose whether you are adjusting the Left or Right  mirror.
Then use the left scroll button as follows to adjust the selected mirror • To move the mirror up or down, roll the left scroll button • To move the mirror inward or outward, press the left scroll The steering wheel design may vary but the function is the configuration, market region, and date of manufacture.
Both exterior mirrors can tilt downward when the vehicle is shifted into Reverse.To turn this feature on or off, touch Controls  > Mirrors  > Mirror Auto Tilt ..
To adjust the auto-tilt position, touch Adjust Tilted Position  and make mirror adjustments as needed.
After adjusting the tilted position and touching Save , mirrors will automatically tilt to the configured position whenever you shift into Reverse.
When you shift out of Reverse, mirrors tilt back to their normal To reduce glare when driving at night, the rear view mirror and exterior side mirrors dim automatically.
To enable or disable this feature, touch Controls  > Mirrors  > Mirror Auto To manually fold and unfold exterior mirrors (for example, parking in a narrow garage, tight space, etc.), touch Controls > Fold/Unfold Mirrors .
You can also fold and unfold mirrors using the multifunction capabilities on your left scroll button When you manually fold the mirrors, they remain folded until manually unfold them by touching Controls  > Unfold Mirrors ).
To set the mirrors to fold automatically whenever you exit and lock Model 3  touch Controls  > Mirrors  > Mirror Auto Fold .The mirrors unfold automatically when you unlock Model 3 ..
You can also set mirrors to fold automatically whenever you arrive at a specific location, which saves you from having to manually fold them each time you arrive at a frequented place.
To set up, stop at the location you want to save (or Touch Save Location  when it appears briefly on the Fold If you no longer want mirrors to automatically fold, touch Controls  > Unfold Mirrors  when they fold at the saved When you leave the saved location, mirrors unfold when your pushing the mirror assembly away from you to unfold, or parked, turn off Mirror Auto Fold .
Accumulation of ice can prevent exterior side mirrors from folding or unfolding.See how to ensure your mirrors function properly in cold weather..
You can integrate auto-folding mirrors with HomeLink (see Adjust the rear view mirror manually.
When in Drive or Neutral, the rear view mirror automatically dims in low lighting conditions based on the time of day (for example, To expose and illuminate the vanity mirror, fold the sun visor downwards, then use the tab to lower the mirror cover.
After When Model 3  is in Park, you must press the brake pedal to Move the drive stalk up or down to shift into different drive If you try to shift when it is prohibited by the current driving speed, a chime sounds and the drive mode does not change.
If you want to disable chime sounds when you shift gears, Push the drive stalk all the way up and release.
You can only shift into Reverse when Model 3  is stopped or moving less Neutral allows Model 3  to roll freely when you are not • When in Park, shift into Neutral by briefly pushing the drive stalk either up or down to the first position.
• When in Drive, shift into Neutral by briefly pushing the drive stalk up to the first position.
If Autosteer  or Traffic- push the drive stalk up to the first position and hold it there for more than 1 second.
In doing so, Autosteer  or • When in Reverse, shift into Neutral by briefly pushing the driver's seat.To stay in Neutral, use the touchscreen to Push the drive stalk all the way down and release..
You can shift into Drive when Model 3  is stopped or moving less than once to engage Traffic-Aware Cruise Control , or twice in quick succession to engage Autosteer .
If Self-Driving Activation  is set to Single Pull , pulling the drive stalk down once activates Autosteer  (which includes Traffic-Aware Cruise Control ).
Touch Controls  > Self-Driving  > Self-Driving Activation  and choose Double Pull  to use Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  independently of Autosteer  when you pull the drive stalk down once.
For more information, see Before Press the end of the drive stalk while Model 3  is stopped.Model 3  automatically shifts into Park to prevent roll-away while driving in low speeds..
This happens whenever you connect a charge cable, unbuckle your seat belt, or open the door while in Drive, Reverse, or Neutral.
Ensure the charge cable is removed, buckle your seat belt, and close the door Attempting to engage the parking brake above 5 mph (8 To make it convenient to pick up passengers, you can also unlock all doors at any time by shifting into Park then list of reasons why Model 3  may or may not automatically shift into Park and, in certain scenarios, it is possible for your vehicle to shift into Park when only one of the above CAUTION:  In emergency situations, if the brakes are button on the drive stalk  to bring Model 3  to a stop.
Do ensure the vehicle is in Park before exiting.
Never rely on Model 3  to automatically shift into Park for you; it might not work in all circumstances (for example, if Creep or a slope causes the vehicle to travel greater You can also pull the turn signal stalk toward you to display a popup that provides quick access to exterior lights.
For example, you can turn the headlights on or off continuously lights popup allows you to adjust all exterior light settings, setting you choose is retained for the current drive only.
Controls screen for lights, pulling the turn signal stalk does In addition to the lights you can control from the touchscreen, Model 3  has convenience lights that operate automatically based on what you are doing.
For example, in low ambient lighting conditions, the interior lights, marker lights, tail lights, and puddle lights turn on when you unlock Model 3 , when you open a door, and when you shift into Park.
They turn off after a minute or two, when you shift or lock Model 3 .
Use these settings to control your vehicle's interior Exterior lights (headlights, tail lights, side marker lights, parking lights, and license plate lights) are set to Auto  each time you start Model 3 .
When set to Auto , exterior lights automatically turn on when driving in low lighting conditions, or whenever the wipers are active.
If you change to a different setting, lights always revert to Auto  on your next Touch one of these options to change and retain the exterior light setting until adjusted again or the next time you drive: • Off: Exterior lights turn off.
When driving, daytime running lights may remain on based on regulations in various • Parking : Parking lights, side marker lights, tail lights and • On: Low beam headlights, side marker lights, parking lights, tail lights, and license plate lights turn on.
headlights, also referred to as "signature" lights.These lights automatically turn on whenever Model 3  is powered on and a CAUTION:  The rear tail lights are off when daytime running lights are on..
Be sure the rear lights are on during low rear visibility conditions (for example, when it is dark, foggy, snowy, or the road is wet, etc.).Failure low visibility conditions..
Failure to do so may result in a A separate control is available to turn on fog lights (if equipped).When on, fog lights operate whenever low beam headlights are on..
When headlights are turned off, fog lights the interior dome lights turn on when you unlock Model 3 , You can also manually turn an individual dome light on or off by pressing its lens.
If you manually turn a dome light on, it turns off when Model 3  powers off.
If Model 3  was already powered off when you manually turned the light on, it buttons, touch Controls  > Lights  > Steering Wheel Lights .
If If you turn on Steering Wheel Lights , the arrows associated with the scroll buttons are backlit in low ambient lighting You can temporarily turn on high beams by pulling the turn signal stalk toward you.
When you release, high beam To briefly flash the high beam headlights, pull the turn signal The following indicator lights are visible on the touchscreen options purchased, and software version, your vehicle may not be equipped with Adaptive Headlights, or the feature When Adaptive Headlights  is enabled, the beam of the headlights adjusts automatically to improve your driving view.
For example, when traffic is approaching Model 3  and the high beam headlights are on, individual pixels of the high The headlights also adjust to curves on the road ahead to provide greater visibility at night.When Adaptive Headlights  is enabled, it is automatically turned on at the beginning of each drive.
Adaptive Headlights is enabled by default  and, if disabled, is enabled automatically whenever you engage Autosteer  or Full Self- Adaptive Headlights , or use the lights popup that displays on the touchscreen when you pull the turn signal stalk toward feature only and is subject to limitations.
It is the driver's responsibility to make sure that headlights are always appropriately adjusted for weather conditions When Headlights after Exit  is on, the exterior headlights remain on when you stop driving and park Model 3  in low lighting conditions.
They automatically turn off after one minute or when Model 3  locks.When off, headlights turn off card, the headlights immediately turn off..
However, if the vehicle locks because Walk-Away Door Lock is enabled (see To turn this feature on or off, touch Controls  > Lights  > To adjust the angle of the headlights, touch Controls  > Service  > Adjust Headlights , then follow the onscreen instructions.
You can choose which headlight you would like temporarily driving into a region where the traffic direction is different (for example, driving in right-hand traffic region, and then driving into a region with left-hand traffic).
headlights.Tesla has carefully calibrated the position of the headlights to be in an optimum position for most driving scenarios..
Tesla recommends that you do not adjust headlights unless you are familiar with how headlights should be adjusted.
Once adjusted, you will The turn signals flash three times or continuously, depending on how far up or down you move the stalk.
Lightly push the turn signal stalk up or down for a three-flash sequence.
For a continuous signal, push the stalk fully up or down.Lights The turn signals stop operating when canceled by the steering wheel, by moving the stalk in the opposite direction, or lightly pushing the stalk in the same direction once more.
If Controls  > Lights  > Automatic Turn Signals  is set to Auto Cancel , turn signals cancel automatically when Model 3 detects completion of a maneuver such as a merge, lane change, or a fork in the roadway.
If Automatic Turn Signals  is set to Off, you must cancel the turn signal manually by using Control , engaging a turn signal can cause Model 3  to turn signal can cause Model 3  to change lanes (see located above the rear view mirror.
All turn signals flash.If a severe crash is detected by your vehicle, the hazard once will return the lights to their normal cadence..
Pressing a Due to weather changes, humidity levels, or recent exposure accumulate in your vehicle’s head or tail lights.
This is normal — as the weather gets warmer and humidity decreases, condensation often disappears on its own.
If you notice water buildup within the exterior lenses, or if the condensation affects the visibility of the exterior lights, contact Tesla You can access wiper settings by pressing the button on the end of the turn signal stalk or touching Controls  > Wipers .
You can also add wipers to the bottom bar (see Customizing The button at the end of turn signal stalk has two levels.• Press partially  to wipe the windshield..
If the wiper is already operating at a wiper setting and is not set to Auto , pressing the button cycles through speeds.Wiper speeds cycle as follows: I > II > III > IIII > III > II > I..
• Press fully  to spray washer fluid onto the windshield.
After releasing the button, the wipers perform two additional wipes then, depending on vehicle and environmental conditions, a third wipe a few seconds later.
You can also press and hold the wiper button for a continuous spray of washer fluid—the wipers perform the wipes after you Whenever you press the wiper button, the touchscreen displays the wiper menu, allowing you to adjust wiper settings.
Roll the left scroll button on the steering wheel  up or down to choose your desired setting.
You can also use the touchscreen or use voice commands (see Voice Commands ◦ Auto  - Model 3  detects precipitation and adjusts the wiping speed and intensity.
Pressing the wiper button while the wipers are set to Auto  temporarily increases setting from Auto  while using Self-Driving , the wipers once again default to Auto  the next time you engage uncertain about using the Auto setting while in the CAUTION:  Ensure the wipers are off before washing Model 3  to avoid the risk of damaging the wipers.
Periodically check and clean the edge of the wiper blades.If a blade is damaged, replace it immediately..
For details on checking and replacing wiper blades, see Windshield Wiper CAUTION:  To avoid damaging the hood, ensure that the CAUTION:  In harsh climates, ensure that the wiper blades are not frozen or adhered to the windshield.
Press the button on the end of the turn signal stalk to spray washer fluid onto the windshield.This button has two levels.. Press partially for a single wipe without any washer fluid..
Press fully for both wipe and wash.When washing the windshield, the wipers turn on.. While spraying the windshield, the wipers turn on..
After releasing the button, the wipers perform two additional wipes then, depending on vehicle and environmental conditions, a third wipe a few Periodically top up washer fluid (see Topping Up Windshield critical to ensure safety.
If you experience a problem with the brake pedal, brake calipers, or any component the wheels from locking when you apply maximum brake pressure.
This improves steering control during heavy During emergency braking conditions, the ABS constantly monitors the speed of each wheel and varies the brake The alteration of brake pressure can be felt as a pulsing sensation through the brake pedal.
This demonstrates that the ABS is operating and is not a cause for concern.Keep Mexico may show either the text or icon of the brake, ABS, brake fluid is low.. Contact Tesla immediately..
Keep the brakes pressed In an emergency, fully press the brake pedal and maintain firm pressure, even on low traction surfaces.
The ABS varies the braking pressure to each wheel according to the amount of traction available.
This prevents wheels from locking and If an alternative method is needed to bring the vehicle to a stop, press and hold the Park button on the drive stalk to apply the brakes and remove drive torque while the button is hydroplaning (where a layer of water prevents direct CAUTION:  Automatic Emergency Braking (see Collision automatically brake in situations where a collision is considered imminent.
Automatic Emergency Braking is not designed to prevent a collision.At best, it can minimize the impact of a frontal collision by attempting to reduce your driving speed..
Depending on Automatic Emergency Braking to avoid a collision can result in CAUTION:  In emergency situations, if the brakes are button on the drive stalk  to bring Model 3  to a stop.
Do To ensure brakes remain responsive in cold or wet weather, Model 3  is equipped with brake disc wiping.
When cold or wet weather is detected, this feature repeatedly applies an imperceptible amount of brake force to remove water from Model 3  is equipped with hydraulic fade compensation.
This assists in monitoring brake system pressure and ABS activity for instances of reduced brake performance.
If reduced brake performance is detected (for example, as a result of brake fade, or cold or wet conditions), you may hear a sound , feel the brake pedal pull away from your foot,  and notice a strong increase in braking.
Brake as you normally would and continue to press the brake pedal without releasing or CAUTION:  In emergency situations, if the brakes are button on the drive stalk  to bring Model 3  to a stop.
Do from the vehicle in front of you and exercise caution Model 3  is equipped with a brake booster that activates the brakes when the brake pedal is pressed.
Hydraulic boost compensation provides mechanical assistance if the brake booster fails.
If a brake booster failure is detected, the brake pedal feels stiffer to press and you may hear a sound when you press the brake pedal.
Drive cautiously and maintain a responsiveness and braking performance may be degraded.
Whenever Model 3  is moving and your foot is off the accelerator, regenerative braking slows down the vehicle and feeds any surplus power back to the Battery.
By anticipating your stops and reducing or removing pressure from the accelerator pedal to slow down, you can take advantage of Vehicle deceleration due to regenerative braking may vary depending on the current state of the Battery.
For example, regenerative braking may be limited if the Battery is cold or is already fully charged.To experience the same amount of deceleration whenever you release the accelerator pedal, regardless of the state of the Battery, you can choose to have the regular braking system automatically engage whenever regenerative braking is limited.
Touch Controls  > Dynamics  > Apply Brakes When Limited  may not operate if the brakes are extremely is enabled and applying the brakes, the brake pedal may move and it may feel stiffer when pressed.
This is expected and does not change your ability to slow down Model 3 .The power meter (a thin line in the touchscreen's car status 1..
Represents power being output by the Battery, such as that used to accelerate the vehicle.When you press the accelerator pedal, the top half of the power meter fills 2..
Represents power generated from regenerative braking, or power that is captured from slowing down the vehicle.
Power being fed back to the Battery displays in green tread design may result in temporarily-reduced regenerative braking power.
However, your vehicle is designed to continuously recalibrate itself, and after changing tires it will increasingly restore regenerative braking power after some straight-line accelerations.
For most drivers this occurs after a short period of normal driving, but drivers who normally accelerate lightly may need to use slightly harder accelerations while the recalibration is in progress.
Touch Service  > Wheel & Tire  > Tires  to select winter tires and 3 (such as when your foot is completely off the accelerator pedal at highway speeds), the brake lights turn on to alert pads are typically used less frequently than those in traditional braking systems.
Although Brake Disc Wiping (see imperceptible amount of brake force to remove water from the surface of the brake discs, an accumulation of rust and corrosion still may occur (especially in regions where the roads are salted during winter).
You can avoid such buildup by using the brake pedal regularly, or by burnishing the brakes as necessary (see "Burnishing the Brakes" in the Do It Regenerative braking decelerates Model 3  whenever you release the accelerator pedal when driving.
You can choose what you want Model 3  to do once the driving speed has the accelerator pedal and brake pedal are released.
While in Park, touch Controls  > Dynamics  > Stopping Mode  and • Creep : When close to, or at, a complete stop, the motor continues to apply torque, moving Model 3  slowly forward conventional vehicle with an automatic transmission.
In some situations, such as on a steep hill or driveway, you may need to press the accelerator pedal to continue moving or to prevent Model 3  from moving in the opposite torque to prevent your vehicle from rolling down a hill.
Always press the brake pedal to remain stopped • Hold : Maximizes range and reduces brake wear by continuing to provide regenerative braking at speeds lower than with the Creep and Roll settings.
When Model 3 stops, the brakes are automatically applied without you having to put your foot on the brake pedal.
Whether stopped on a flat surface or a hill, Vehicle Hold keeps the brake applied, provided your foot remains off the decelerate or fully stop your vehicle.
Many factors regenerative braking (see Regenerative Braking  on • Roll: When close to, or at, a complete stop, Model 3 becomes free rolling like a vehicle in Neutral.
Therefore, if stopped on a slope, Model 3  will roll downward.The brake does not engage, and the motor does not apply torque Vehicle Hold to apply the brakes..
However, you will need to briefly press the brake pedal when the vehicle is your chosen setting.When no longer in Track Mode, when unsafe to do so..
It is your responsibility to stay alert and be in control of the vehicle at all times.Failure to do so can result in serious damage, injury, or death.. vehicle safe..
Various factors such as driving with a heavy vehicle load, on a steep hill, or on wet or icy roads affect deceleration rate and the distance at which Model 3  will come to a stop.
Drive attentively and always stay prepared to use the brake pedal to very low speeds (see Collision Avoidance Assist  on or to prevent or reduce the impact of a collision.
To manually engage the parking brake, press and and hold the button on the end of the drive stalk while in Park.
The parking brake is released when the vehicle is shifted into and is independent of the pedal-operated brake system.
CAUTION:  In the unlikely event that Model 3  loses electrical power, you cannot access the touchscreen and are therefore unable to release the parking brake may not have sufficient traction to prevent Model 3 from sliding down a slope, particularly if not using winter tires.
Avoid parking on hills in snowy or icy conditions.You are always responsible for parking road is too steep to safely park on, or if the parking brakes are not properly engaged..
These alerts are for guidance purposes only and are not a substitute for the driver’s judgment of safe parking conditions, including specific road or weather conditions.
Do not depend on these alerts to determine whether or not it is safe to park at any location.You are always responsible for Model 3  brake pads are equipped with wear indicators..
A wear indicator is a thin metal strip attached to the brake pad that squeals as it rubs against the rotor when the pad wears down.
This squealing sound indicates that the brake pads have reached the end of their service life and require replacement.
To replace the brake pads, contact Tesla Brakes must be periodically inspected visually by removing the tire and wheel.
For detailed specifications and service lubricating the brake calipers every year or 12,500 miles damages the braking system and can result in a braking Model 3  is designed to detect the presence of objects.
When you if an object is detected in close proximity of your Model 3.
The vehicle alerts you when objects are detected in front of Model 3  when you are in Drive, and behind Model 3  when freely in the opposite direction (for example, Park Assist does not display an alert if Model 3  rolls if an area you are approaching is free of objects and/or performance of Park Assist, causing either no readings determine if Model 3  is approaching an obstruction can result in damage to the vehicle and/or objects, and can potentially cause serious injury.
Always inspect the shoulder checks and use all mirrors.
Park assist does not detect children, pedestrians, bicyclists, animals, or objects that are moving, protruding, located too far above or below the cameras, or too close or too far from the cameras.
Park Assist is for guidance purposes only and is not intended to replace your own direct visual checks.It is not a substitute for careful driving..
options purchased, and software version, your vehicle may Your vehicle uses the cameras mounted on the front, rear, and sides of Model 3  to create a high-fidelity reproduction of The colors on the visualization correspond to the distance between Model 3  and the object shown.
Red is closer to Depending on date of manufacture: You can enable or Controls  > Self-Driving , scrolling to Park Assist , and toggling When you shift to Reverse, the Park Assist view displays on the touchscreen , showing objects that are in close proximity to the front and rear of Model 3 .
This view closes when you shift into Drive unless an object is detected close to the front of Model 3 , in which case the Park Assist view closes automatically when you start driving faster than the speed at which Park Assist operates.
When reversing, visual feedback When driving at low speeds with the Camera app displayed on the touchscreen, you can switch to the Park Assist view by touching the button located in the upper left corner of the Camera app screen.
This is useful if you need assistance with If chimes are turned on (see Controlling Audible Feedback  on CAUTION:  Keep cameras clean from dirt, debris, snow, and ice.
Avoid using a high pressure power washer on the cameras, and do not clean a camera with a sharp or abrasive object that can scratch or damage its surface.
CAUTION:  Do not install accessories or stickers on or You can use Park Assist with or without audible feedback.
To turn chimes on or off, touch Controls  > Safety  > Park Assist Park Assist may not function correctly in these situations: • The object is located below approximately 8 inches as curbs or low barriers) can move into a blind spot.
Model 3  cannot alert you about an object while it is • Park Assist’s operating range has been exceeded.
• The object is sound-absorbing or soft (such as powder • Model 3  has been parked in, or being driven in, extremely • An object that is mounted to Model 3  is interfering with and/or obstructing Park Assist (such as a bike rack or • Model 3  rolls freely in the opposite direction you selected (for example, Park Assist does not display an alert if Model 3  rolls backwards down a hill while in Drive).
In addition to Park Assist, when shifted into Reverse, the backup camera displays a view of the area behind Model 3 When Model 3  is stopped, Vehicle Hold can continue to apply the brakes even after you remove your foot from the • Hold : Vehicle Hold is automatically enabled any time the • Creep  or Roll: Vehicle Hold is enabled automatically anytime the vehicle is at a standstill and the brake is To disengage Vehicle Hold, press the accelerator pedal or minutes, Model 3  shifts into Park and Vehicle Hold cancels.
Model 3  also shifts into Park if it detects that the driver has The traction control system constantly monitors the speed of the front and rear wheels.
If Model 3  experiences a loss of traction, the system minimizes wheel spin by controlling brake pressure and motor power.By default, the traction control system is on..
Under normal conditions, it should caused by driving dangerously or turning too sharply at To allow the wheels to spin at a limited speed, you can enable Slip Start .
Slip Start  can be enabled at any speed, however it Under normal conditions, Slip Start  should not be enabled.
Enable it only in circumstances where you deliberately want • Starting on a loose surface, such as gravel or snow.
To allow the wheels to spin, touch Controls  > Dynamics  > Slip Although Slip Start  is automatically disabled the next time you start Model 3 , it is strongly recommended that you disable it immediately after the circumstances that required Touch Controls  > Dynamics  > Acceleration  to adjust the amount of acceleration you experience when driving Model • Chill : Limits acceleration for a smooth and gentle ride.
When selected, Chill  displays on the touchscreen above package, the modes of acceleration are Chill  and Sport .
• Sport : (Performance vehicles/Acceleration Upgrade package)  Provides the maximum level of acceleration If your vehicle is equipped with a heat pump (to determine if your vehicle has a heat pump, touch Controls  > Software  > Additional Vehicle Information ), you can improve the efficiency of the cabin heating by reducing your selected acceleration mode.
This allows the heat pump system to take more heat from the Battery to efficiently heat the cabin, instead of maintaining the Battery's ability to provide peak acceleration performance.
This helps to maximize driving increasing the acceleration mode, the Battery requires time to warm up before the increased level of acceleration is Track Mode, available only on Performance Model 3  vehicles, is designed to modify the stability control, traction control, regenerative braking, and cooling systems to increase performance and handling while driving on closed circuit intelligently using the motors, and regenerative and traditional braking systems.
When enabled, the cooling system runs at an increased level before, during, and after aggressive driving sessions to allow your vehicle’s systems to Performance Model 3  equipped with performance brakes and tires.
Vehicles without performance brakes and tires may experience comparatively lower performance and endurance.
responsibility to drive safely and ensure others are not experienced track drivers familiar with the course.Do not use on public roads..
It is the driver’s responsibility to be in control of the vehicle at all times, including on the track.
Because vehicle behavior (including traction and stability control) differs when using Track Mode, Track Mode is always disabled when you start Model 3 .
To enable Track Mode for your current drive, shift into Park and When enabled, TRACK  displays on the touchscreen above touchscreen displays a color-coded image of your Model 3 that provides you with important at-a-glance status information about the Battery, the motors, the tires and 2.
If desired, customize the Track Mode settings by touching Track Mode Settings  on the Track Mode pop up window access the Track Mode settings by touching Controls  > Dynamics , then touching Customize  next to the Track motor temperatures to reduce if highlighted in yellow or 3.
If you want to use the Lap Timer, follow the onscreen instructions to drop a pin on the map to define the lap's start/finish location.
You will then need to press START  on the Lap Timer to begin your driving session.
Once started, the Lap Timer starts counting when you drive Model 3 past the lap's start/finish location where you dropped the 4.Shift and GO!.
If you started the Lap Timer, each time you pass the start/ finish location, the timer resets for the next lap.See Using swiping the Cards area of the touchscreen..
See G-Meter ◦ Stopping Mode is set to the Roll setting in which Model 3  is free-rolling at very low speeds whenever Drive or Reverse is engaged and both the accelerator and brake pedal are released.
For details, see Stopping Use the touchscreen setting to turn Track Mode off at any time.
Powering off Model 3  also turns off Track Mode (although it may still appear on the touchscreen if Post- Drive cooling is in progress).
When Track Mode is off, all settings return to their previous state and all features automatically disabled when Track Mode is On.
It is the driver’s responsibility to drive safely and be in control of the vehicle at all times.
Driver assistance To customize Track Mode, touch Track Mode Settings  on the Track Mode popup window that appears on the map when you enable Track Mode.
You can also access the Track Mode settings by touching Controls  > Dynamics , then touching Customize  next to the Track Mode setting.
Choose an existing Track Mode setting from the list of pre-defined profiles provided by Tesla.
Or create a new settings profile by touching Add New Settings , entering a name for the settings profile, then adjusting these settings to suit your preferences or driving scenario, or customize for a specific track: • Handling Balance  - Drag the slider to customize the balance of Model 3  in a turn.
If Model 3  is too loose, you can choose a front-biased under-steering setup.Difficult to get the vehicle through a turn?. Try a rear-biased setup to increase rotation..
You can select any value, in 5% increments, between 100/0 (for 100% front biased used • Stability Assist  - Drag the slider to choose the level at which the stability control systems assist in controlling the vehicle.
You can choose any level from -10 to +10.
Choosing +10 engages all stability assist systems for controllable driving in which stability systems remain Track Mode engaged, whereas -10 disables all stability systems and the stability of the drive rests solely on the driver.
The default setting of 0 represents a balance which provides some stability being automatically controlled and leaving • Regenerative Braking  - Drag the slider to choose how much regenerative braking is available.
You can choose any value, in 5% increments, between 0 and 100%.
Tesla recommends the 100% setting to prevent overheating the • Post-Drive Cooling  - Enable if you want the cooling systems to continue cooling the vehicle's components automatically when the components are sufficiently cool, or when you power Model 3  off and back on again.
Post- Drive Cooling is useful if you want to quickly cool the components between driving sessions.
If Post-Drive Cooling is set to OFF, the components eventually cool, • Save Dashcam for Laps  - Enable if you want to save a video and data on a USB flash drive when using the Lap Timer.
A USB flash drive must be set up and inserted as described (see USB Drive Requirements for Recording Mode stores a video and associated data for each lap.
Track Mode also stores the car status and telemetry data acceleration, use of accelerator, etc.
You can then view the video recordings and analyze this data, which is saved as a .CSV file on the USB flash drive, to determine where approximately November 1, 2021, the center console USB ports may only support charging devices.
Use the USB port inside the glove box for all other functions.Track Mode allows you to save up to 20 settings profiles..
To delete a chosen profile, touch Delete  at the bottom of the When you enable Track Mode, the map displays a Lap Timer.Follow the onscreen instructions to place a start/finish pin on the map..
Once the pins are placed, press START  to initiate through the start/finish location, the Lap Timer automatically starts timing the duration of the lap, resetting the timer whenever you pass the start/finish location, and displaying the real-time delta between the current lap and the fastest lap so far in the driving session.
The map highlights the track At the completion of each lap, the Lap Timer displays the duration of the lap.
It also displays the times associated with the previous and best laps in the driving session.If Save Dashcam for Laps  is on (see Customizing Track Mode inserted in a front USB port, Track Mode saves a video of the with a .CSV file that provides detailed information about the You can easily monitor the health of Model 3  when using Track Mode by glancing at the car status area of the touchscreen.
The colors indicate the status of the various components, allowing you to determine the current operating state and make decisions accordingly.
The components are displayed in green when operating within their ideal • The Battery displays blue when cold and red when hot.
• A brake displays blue when cold and red when hot (an • A motor displays blue when it's cold or red when it's hot.• Dynamic readings of the tire pressures displays on the touchscreen..
A tire displays blue when under-used or red CAUTION:  Any vehicle damage or injuries caused by using Track Mode is the driver's responsibility.The excessive overuse of vehicle components..
It also does not cover racing, autocross, or driving in competition.In Track Mode, a real-time G-Meter displays on the touchscreen..
The G-Meter graphically displays peak lateral, acceleration, and deceleration values in the form of a circular meter.The history of your drive is represented in the shaded area..
The G-Meter resets at the start of each driving session.card..
However, the G-Meter displays as the default card When you first adjust the driver’s seat, steering wheel position, or exterior side mirrors, the touchscreen prompts you to create a driver profile to save these adjustments.
Your profile also saves various preferences you make while To save your profile settings to the cloud and access them across multiple Tesla vehicles, set up a Tesla Profile (see Check the Use Easy Entry  checkbox if you want to save (or use existing) Easy Entry  settings in which the driver's seat and the steering wheel  are automatically adjusted to make it If you change the position of the driver’s seat, steering wheel , or exterior side mirrors after you have saved or chosen a driver profile, the touchscreen prompts you to Save  the new position or Restore  the previously saved position (other settings are automatically saved).
To change a setting without saving or restoring, just ignore the prompt.
To delete a driver profile, touch the driver profile icon at the top of the touchscreen , touch Driver Profile Settings  and select the driver profile you want to remove.
Once selected, and restricts access to some Model 3  features (see Valet based on a driver's profile, touch Stop  on the Driver Profile dropdown menu.
Automatic adjustments also stop if you manually adjust a seat, mirror, or the steering wheel .to your driver profile..
For more information, see Braking and adjustments, temperature preferences, navigation Recents and Favorites, media settings, and data sharing preferences can be saved into a Tesla Profile that is synced to every supported vehicle under your Tesla Account.
This provides convenient access to your profile settings and preferences To set up your Tesla Profile, navigate to Driver Profile Settings and select your Tesla Account name.
You can choose to set it up as a New Profile or copy the settings from an existing To set up a Tesla Profile for additional drivers, share your vehicle with them from the mobile app and navigate to Security & Drivers  > Manage Drivers  > Add Driver .
Their Tesla Profile will appear in the Driver Profile settings after accepting the invitation from their Tesla Account.If you remove their access to the vehicle, it also removes their Tesla Profile..
For more information on granting mobile app access, addition, you can change your profile picture from your Tesla vehicle models.
If the seat, steering, and mirror positions do not restore as expected, touch Controls  > Service  > Driver Seat, Steering, & Mirrors Calibration  on the affected vehicles.
If the setting for Self-Driving Activation  does not restore as expected, touch Controls  > Self-Driving  > Self-Driving To remove your Tesla Profile from a vehicle, remove that 1.
In the Tesla mobile app, touch the profile icon in the top- A subset of the settings that you choose to customize your Model 3  are automatically saved to your driver's profile.
Once saved, a green check mark appears next to the driver profile icon on the touchscreen.Examples of automatically saved • Navigation, temperature, lights and display settings..
• Self-Driving  and driving preferences.Driver Profiles 3 to automatically select the correct driver profile when the linked key is detected as you approach the vehicle and open the driver's door.
To link a driver profile to a key, first ensure you are using your desired driver profile, then touch Controls > Locks  > Keys .
You can toggle the driver icon to link or delete a key to the desired driver profile.The name of the driver profile appears under the key to show that it is linked..
multiple keys to a driver profile, but you cannot link multiple You can define an Easy Entry setting that moves the steering wheel  and driver's seat to make it easy to enter and exit Model 3 .
Any driver can use the Easy Entry setting by associating it with their driver profile.
When the Easy Entry setting is associated with a driver profile, the steering wheel and driver's seat automatically adjust when in Park and the driver's seat belt is unbuckled, allowing an easy exit from automatically adjust back to the settings used by the most recent driver profile (or based on the key if it's linked to a To use Easy Entry  with a driver profile, ensure the Use Easy seat to the full rearward position when a child safety seat is installed on a rear seat located behind the driver's seat.
With reduced clearance, the movement of the seat may impact a child's legs, cause injury, or When Model 3  is in Valet mode, the following restrictions • Key card must be used to access and drive Model 3 .
• Home and Work locations are not available in the • Self-Driving  convenience features are disabled.• The Allow Mobile Access setting cannot be changed..
• The touchscreen does not display the list of keys that can • Wi-Fi and Bluetooth are disabled.
When Model 3  is in Valet mode, you cannot pair new Bluetooth devices or view or delete existing paired devices.
However, if a Bluetooth-paired device or a known Wi-Fi network is With Model 3  in Park, touch Controls  > Safety  > Valet Mode , or touch the driver profile icon at the top of the Controls The first time you enter Valet mode, the touchscreen prompts you to create a 4-digit PIN you will use to cancel When Valet mode is active, the touchscreen  displays the word Valet  while the driver profile changes to Valet Mode  on You can also use the mobile app to start and cancel Valet do not need to enter a PIN because you are already required to log into the app using your Tesla Account credentials.
131), you must enter the driving PIN before you can define or enter a Valet PIN.Once in Valet mode, Model 3  can be driven without the valet needing to enter the driving PIN..
If you forget your valet PIN, reset it from inside Model 3  by entering your Tesla Account credentials (which also cancels Valet mode).
You can also reset your PIN using the mobile With Model 3  in Park, touch the Valet Mode  driver profile icon at the top of the Controls  screen , and enter your 4-digit PIN.
When you cancel Valet mode, all settings associated with the most recently used driver profile and climate control settings Trip information displays on the touchscreen in the cards area on the car status display, or when you touch Controls  > Trips .
For the current trip, you can display distance, duration and average energy usage.
You can also show distance and total and average energy used since your last charge and for To name or rename a trip, touch the trip's name, enter a new name for the trip, then press Save .
To reset a particular trip To display the odometer and view vehicle mileage, do either • Open the mobile app and scroll down to the bottom of the Model 3  is equipped with a rear view camera located.
Whenever you shift into Reverse, the touchscreen displays the view from the camera.Lines show your driving path based on the position of the steering wheel ..
These lines A vertical red bar appears over the rear view camera feed if Model 3  detects an object (such as another vehicle or a pedestrian) about to cross behind the vehicle.
For more Model 3  also displays images from the side cameras  (if equipped) .
Simply swipe up or down to hide or show the side If a black screen appears on the touchscreen instead of the rear view camera feed when in Reverse, use the rear view mirrors and ensure your surroundings are safe before continuing to Reverse.
If inoperability of the rear view camera persists, use the mobile app to schedule a service if the area behind you is free of objects and/or people.
The cameras  may not detect objects or barriers that can potentially cause damage or injury.
In addition, several external factors can reduce the performance of the cameras , including a dirty or obstructed lens.
Therefore, depending on the cameras  to determine if Model 3  is approaching an obstruction can result in potentially cause serious injury.Always inspect the shoulder checks and use all mirrors..
Use the cameras replace your own direct visual checks and is not a To ensure a clear picture, the camera lens must be clean and 3 to emit sound when driving below approximately 19 mph operate quietly and this sound helps to alert pedestrians of your oncoming vehicle.
The sound, which activates whenever Model 3  is shifted out of Park, gets louder as speed in vehicles manufactured prior to approximately September 1, increase the likelihood of a collision resulting in serious options purchased, Self-Driving  hardware, and software version, your vehicle may not be equipped with Full Self- attempts to drive to your destination by following curves in the road, stopping at and negotiating intersections, making left and right turns, navigating roundabouts, and entering/ Unlike Traffic-Aware Cruise Control , Autosteer , and Navigate on Autosteer , which are intended for use on multi-lane roadways with clear lane markings, Full Self-Driving type of roadway, including residential and city streets.
oncoming cars, in construction zones, or while going through complex intersections.
For more examples of mounted at the front, rear, left, and right of Model 3  to build a model of the area surrounding Model 3  (see Cameras  on use this input, rapidly process neural networks, and make evolve, Model 3  is upgraded through over-the-air software Like other Self-Driving  features, Full Self-Driving must remain attentive and be ready to take over at all times monitors driver attentiveness (see Driver Attentiveness  on to pay attention to the road and be ready to take over at all times.
Remain attentive, be mindful of road conditions and surrounding traffic, pay attention to pedestrians and cyclists, and always be prepared to take immediate action (especially around blind corners, situations).
Failure to follow these instructions could responsibility to familiarize yourself with the limitations attentive and overly cautious.
Every country contains unique infrastructure, driving behaviors, and traffic to over time.
You must be ready to take over safely at parked, touch Controls  > Self-Driving  > Full Self-Driving change the default setting of Standard  to Chill  or Hurry .
Chill  provides a more relaxed driving style with engaged  and Model 3  is traveling at highway speeds , tilting the right scroll button to the right or left ◦ Max Speed Offset : Set the percentage offset over the currently detected speed limit that Full Self-Driving than the speed limit to match the flow of traffic.
the vehicle at all times, whether Self-Driving  is ◦ Use HOV Lanes : Choose whether Full Self-Driving setting for Self-Driving Activation  is set to Single Pull  and 3.
Ensure that the cameras on Model 3  are unobstructed and detect traffic lights, stop signs, and road markings.vehicle..
If Model 3  detects that a camera is blocked touchscreen displays an alert and Full Self-Driving 4.
Ensure that the latest version of maps has been visual data received from the vehicle's cameras, greater accuracy is achieved when using the most recent map available, you can activate it at any speed less than 85 mph must be set to On or Auto .
Although Full Self-Driving is engaged, Adaptive Headlights  (or, on some vehicles, Auto If you do not choose a destination, Model 3  chooses the most probable driving path or suggests a destination based on time if you are uncomfortable or uncertain about the system’s intended course of action.
You are driving Model 3  at all right turns, follows on- and off-ramps, and takes forks in the marking.
From a driver's perspective, the behavior of Always pay attention to the roadway and be prepared to take immediate action.
It is the driver's responsibility to determine whether to stop or continue through an The touchscreen  displays a visualization of the environment surrounding Model 3 , including the roadway and detected objects such as vehicles, pedestrians, curbs, bicyclists, and more.
Objects that are highlighted on the visualization not be a holistic representation of the objects, road markings, road signals, and other variables that Full Self-Driving engaged, it uses data from the cameras on Model 3  that may Enable the setting by touching Controls  > Self-Driving  and then touching Expanded Full Self-Driving Visualization .
Then on the touchscreen, swipe the visualization window handle to Like Autosteer  and Traffic-Aware Cruise Control , Full Self- distance from the vehicle ahead of Model 3 , if there is one.
traffic lights and stop signs as necessary, and reacts to For example, if you are driving on a residential street and another vehicle backs out of a driveway ahead of Model 3 , appropriate.
If the other vehicle stops backing out while partially blocking the driving lane, Full Self-Driving When the traffic in front of you is slowing down, Full Self- and slows down to maintain an appropriate following distance from the vehicle ahead of you.
When you are driving on the on the touchscreen  to inform you when an action (such as a may not appropriately slow down, come to a stop, or resume control for a stop sign or traffic light.
You may assist the system by lightly applying the accelerator, or The touchscreen  displays the max speed in blue.
When Full max speed based on the currently detected speed limit , the Roll the right scroll button up to increase, or down to The max speed limits how fast Model 3  drives while Full Self- profile by pressing the right scroll button to the left or right.
To manually increase the speed of Model 3 , press the and turns based on the driving environment.Unlike Navigate confirmation before a lane change..
You can also indicate your preference to make a lane change or turn by using the right turn signal inputs may not cancel the maneuver.
To In situations where Self-Driving  is unable to steer Model 3 , a When you see this message, take over steering immediately .
Once you reach your destination, Full Self-Driving ◦ CAUTION:  If you move the drive stalk upward and hold it up for more than one second, Model 3  shifts into • There is an Automatic Emergency Braking event (see • The driver's seat belt is released, and/or the driver gets attention and subsequent messages on the touchscreen .
can happen for a number of reasons (for example, if a touchscreen  to notify you and a chime will sound.
If this When driver intervention is required, it is best to safely disengage as soon as possible.
It is recommended to practice environment without other road users so you may become attention to the road, their surroundings, and other road The cabin camera monitors continued driver attentiveness When the cabin camera is actively monitoring driver attentiveness, a green indicator appears in the status bar.
This system cannot be disabled.The cabin camera does not require full visibility of the driver's eyes in order to monitor attentiveness..
The system is still active, for example, if the If the driver repeatedly looks away from the road, the once the driver begins paying attention to the road again.
If the cabin camera does not have clear visibility of the driver's hand and arm locations, the touchscreen  periodically displays a message reminding the driver to apply slight force If the driver repeatedly ignore prompts to apply slight force to the steering wheel or to pay attention, Self-Driving If the driver does not resume manual steering, Model 3 Self-Driving  features.
If the cabin camera detects a handheld device while Self-Driving  is engaged, the touchscreen  displays a message reminding you to pay driver attentiveness is a violation of the terms of use for Self-Driving  and may result in the feature being Use of Self-Driving  features will be suspended if improper suspended for a week when you or another driver of your vehicle receives five "strikeouts." A strikeout is when the Self-Driving  system disengages for the remainder of a trip You can see how many strikeouts are remaining before Self- Driving  access is suspended by touching Controls  > Self- However,  you can still use Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  and There may be occasions where driver intervention is required and you must take over immediately to maintain safe driving.
Driver-initiated disengagements do not count as improper requires a fully attentive driver who is ready to take to pay attention to the road and be ready to take over at all times.
Remain attentive, be mindful of road conditions and surrounding traffic, pay attention to pedestrians and cyclists, and always be prepared to take immediate action (especially around blind corners, situations).
Failure to follow these instructions could responsibility to familiarize yourself with the limitations instructions can result in property damage, serious associated functions may not operate as intended and intervention may be needed.
Examples include (but are • Interactions with pedestrians, bicyclists, and other • Unprotected turns with high-speed cross traffic.
• Narrow roads with oncoming cars or double-parked • Rare objects such as trailers, ramps, cargo, open • High curvature roads, particularly at fast driving operate.
Low visibility, such as low light or poor The list above represents only a fraction of the possible driving conditions appear normal and straight-forward.
Stay alert and always pay attention to the roadway so you can anticipate the need to take corrective action as access feature that must be used with extra caution.
available to eligible customers in select countries contains unique infrastructure, driving behaviors, and adapt to over time, it is essential for drivers using Full be extra attentive and overly cautious.
You must be Self-Driving  refers to a suite of advanced driver assistance features that are intended to make driving more convenient and less stressful.
None of these features make Model 3  fully It is your responsibility to familiarize yourself with the limitations of these features, pay attention to the road, and be ready to take immediate action at any time.
For more All Tesla vehicles are equipped with Traffic-Aware Cruise Control .
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  maintains your speed and an adjustable following distance from the vehicle in front of you, if there is one.
For more information, see Traffic- destination by following curves in the road; stopping at and negotiating intersections, stop signs, and roundabouts; making left and right turns; and entering/exiting highways.
options purchased, Self-Driving  hardware, and software version, your vehicle may not be equipped with Full Self- In addition, the following Self-Driving  features may be available for your vehicle.
The specific features enabled depend on market region, date of manufacture, software version, Self-Driving  hardware, and vehicle configuration.
For information that is customized to your vehicle, view the Owner’s Manual on your vehicle’s touchscreen by touching the app launcher and then selecting the Manual app.
• Autosteer : Maintains your speed and distance from a leading vehicle while also intelligently keeping Model 3  in Navigate on Autosteer  (see Navigate on Autosteer  on • Summon : Allows you to park and retrieve Model 3  using the Tesla mobile app while you are standing outside of • Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control : Maintains your speed, keeps a following distance, and keeps Model 3  in its lane while also slowing down and stopping for traffic lights and stop signs (see Traffic Light and Stop Sign Self-Driving  feature use the cameras on Model 3 .
There are cameras mounted on the front, rear, left, and right sides of Model 3  may also be equipped with a cabin camera, mounted in the rear-view mirror, that monitors driver attentiveness.
It is your responsibility to pay attention to the road and be of your responsibilities.If there is no response, Self-Driving disengages and is unavailable for the remainder of the drive..
to stay alert, drive safely, and be in control of the vehicle at all times.Never depend on Self-Driving  to adequately slow down Model 3 ..
Always watch the road in front of you and be prepared to take corrective action at all times.
Failure to do so can result in serious It is your responsibility to familiarize yourself with the limitations of Self-Driving  and be ready to take control at all Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  maintains your speed and an adjustable following distance from the vehicle in front of you, Before you use Traffic-Aware Cruise Control , customize how • Set Speed : Choose whether Traffic-Aware Cruise Control engages at the currently detected speed limit or your current driving speed.
Touch Controls  > Self-Driving  and • Offset : If you choose Speed Limit , you can specify an offset by touching Set Speed Offset .
You can choose Fixed  (the cruising speed adjusts by a specific amount on • Self-Driving Activation : Choose how to activate Autosteer .
If set to Single Pull , both Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  and Autosteer  engage when you pull the drive stalk down once.
If set to Double Pull , you must pull the drive stalk down twice in quick succession to engage Autosteer .
• Green Traffic Light Chime : In Canada and U.S.: If on, a chime will sound when you are waiting at a red traffic light and the light turns green.
If you are not actively using Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  and are waiting at a red light with a car in front of you, the chime sounds when the car To enable Traffic-Aware Cruise Control , touch Controls  > Self-Driving  > Traffic-Aware Cruise Control .
Or, select Autosteer  and ensure that Self-Driving Activation  is set to Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  is available as long as you are You can activate Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  at lower speeds if there is a vehicle detected at least 5 feet (1.5 Autosteer  is enabled and Self-Driving Activation  is set to Single Pull .
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  is also unavailable 1.Pull the drive stalk down once, then release the accelerator pedal to allow Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  to maintain the cruising speed..
A chime sounds to indicate 2.To change the set speed, roll the right scroll wheel up to accelerator at any time to temporarily override the set 3..
To cancel Traffic-Aware Cruise Control , move the drive for your driving comfort and convenience and is not a responsibility to stay alert, drive safely, and be in control of the vehicle at all times.
Never depend on Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  to adequately slow down Model 3 .Always watch the road in front of you and be prepared to take corrective action at all times..
Failure to do so can result in serious injury or death.
For more When Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  is active and maintaining a set speed, the speed is highlighted with blue text on the When Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  is active, Model 3 maintains your set cruising speed whenever a vehicle is not detected in front of it.
When cruising behind a vehicle, Model 3 accelerates and decelerates as needed to maintain a chosen following distance, up to the set speed.Traffic-Aware Cruise Control You can manually accelerate at any time by pressing the accelerator pedal, but when you release the pedal Model 3 Model 3  also adjusts the cruising speed when entering and When Model 3  is actively slowing down to maintain the selected distance from the vehicle ahead, brake lights turn on.
You may notice slight movement of the brake pedal.
However, when Model 3  is accelerating, the accelerator pedal Roll the right scroll wheel up to increase, or down to To change the cruising speed to the current speed limit It may take a few seconds for Model 3  to reach the new To adjust the following distance  you want to maintain between Model 3  and a vehicle traveling ahead of you, press the steering wheel's right scroll button to the left or right.
Each setting corresponds to a time-based distance that represents how long it takes for Model 3 , from its current location, to reach the location of the rear bumper of the vehicle ahead of you.
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  retains As you adjust the following distance, the touchscreen When moving significantly faster than vehicles in adjacent lanes, Model 3  automatically reduces the driving speed.
This is especially helpful in heavy traffic situations or when vehicles are constantly merging into different lanes.
When Model 3  detects other vehicles driving significantly slower, the touchscreen  highlights the adjacent lanes with arrows and detected vehicles in gray, and Model 3  reduces the driving speed as appropriate.
To temporarily override this feature, press the accelerator pedal.Traffic-Aware Cruise Control When following a vehicle, Traffic-Aware Cruise Control remains active at low speeds, even when Model 3  comes to a full stop.
For example, Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  remains active even if Model 3  slows down to a complete or near- complete stop in heavy, stop-and-go traffic on a highway.
When traffic starts moving more rapidly, Traffic-Aware Cruise Sometimes when Model 3  is at a full stop, Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  goes into a HOLD state.
If this happens, briefly press the accelerator pedal to resume cruising.
Model 3  goes into HOLD state while Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  is active in the following circumstances: • Model 3  has been at a standstill for 5 minutes.
• Model 3  detects a pedestrian (the HOLD state may clear • Model 3  suddenly loses visibility of the vehicle in front of When you are cruising near an exit on a controlled-access highway and engage the turn signal toward the off-ramp, Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  assumes you are exiting and begins to slow down Model 3 .
If you do not drive onto the off-ramp, Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  resumes cruising at the set speed.In a region with right hand traffic, this occurs only when you engage the right turn signal when driving in the right-most with left hand traffic, this occurs when engaging the left turn signal when driving in the left-most lane within 164 ft.
(50 When enabled while on a highway interchange or off-ramp, Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  may reduce your set speed in – to better match the reported speeds of other Tesla vehicles that have driven at that specific location.
To override this and continue cruising at your set speed, tap the accelerator pedal.
The new set speed is maintained for the duration of the interchange or off-ramp (unless you override it or cancel Traffic-Aware Cruise Control ).
After the interchange or off- ramp, the set speed may revert or change as necessary based on the new location.
For example, if you merged onto a different highway, the set cruising speed reverts to what it interchange or off-ramp.
Do not rely on Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  to determine an appropriate driving speed.
Tesla recommends driving at a speed that is When cruising onto an on-ramp to a controlled-access highway, Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  automatically adjusts the set cruising speed to the speed limit of the highway, plus Engage the turn signal momentarily to accelerate Model 3 towards the vehicle ahead of it.
By momentarily holding the turn signal  stalk up or down , you can quickly accelerate up to your set speed without having to press the accelerator pedal • Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  is operating and detects a • No obstacles or vehicles are detected in the target lane.
• Model 3  is traveling below the set speed, but over 45 mph Model 3  stops accelerating when you reach your set cruising speed, if changing lanes takes too long, or if Model 3  gets too close the vehicle ahead.
Model 3  also stops accelerating While Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  is in use, Model 3 it detects that you are likely to run through a red stop light or stop sign.
If this happens, TAKE IMMEDIATE CORRECTIVE or when you press the brake pedal, whichever comes first.does not slow down or stop Model 3  at red traffic lights, stop signs, road markings, etc..
If equipped with Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control , you can enable this feature to automatically stop Model 3  at traffic lights and stop signs ◦ CAUTION:  If you move the drive stalk upward and hold it up for more than one second, Model 3  shifts into • An Automatic Emergency Braking event occurs (see • The driver's seatbelt is released, and/or the driver gets When Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  cancels, the cruising speed icon on the touchscreen  turns gray to indicate that Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  is no longer active.
When Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  cancels, Model 3  does not coast.
Instead, regenerative braking slows down Model 3 in the same way as when you move your foot off the accelerator when driving without Traffic-Aware Cruise This topic describes how to enable and use the following manufacture, software version, vehicle configuration, and Self-Driving  hardware, your vehicle may not be equipped with the following features, or a feature may not operate • Autosteer : Like Traffic-Aware Cruise Control , Autosteer maintains a set speed (if there is not a vehicle in front of front of you).
In addition, Autosteer  detects lane markings, road edges, and the presence of vehicles and objects to intelligently keep Model 3  in its driving lane • Auto Lane Change : When you engage a turn signal while Autosteer  is active, Auto Lane Change  moves Model 3 into the adjacent lane in the direction indicated by the • Navigate on Autosteer : Navigate on Autosteer  builds on Autosteer .
While Autosteer  is active, Navigate on Autosteer  allows Model 3  to suggest and, if configured, automatically change lanes to pass other vehicles and follow the navigation route (see Navigate on Autosteer  on These features use information from the cameras on Model 3 to detect lane markings, road edges, and other vehicles and CAUTION:  Ensure all cameras are clean and free of obstructions before each drive and before using the features described in this topic (see Cleaning a Camera equipped),  as well as environmental conditions such as rain and faded lane markings, can affect performance.
If a camera is obstructed or blinded, Model 3  displays a message on the touchscreen  and Self-Driving  features CAUTION:  It is your responsibility to familiarize yourself with the limitations of Autosteer  and the situations in Before you use Autosteer , customize how it works by • Set Speed : Choose whether Autosteer  engages at the currently detected speed limit or your current driving speed.
Touch Controls  > Self-Driving  and choose either Speed Limit  or Current Speed .• Offset : If you choose Speed Limit , you can specify an offset by touching Set Speed Offset .
You can choose Fixed  (the cruising speed adjusts by a specific amount on • Self-Driving Activation : Choose how to activate Autosteer .
If set to Single Pull , both Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  and Autosteer  engage when you pull the drive stalk down once.
If set to Double Pull , you must pull the drive stalk down twice in quick succession to engage Autosteer .
• Green Traffic Light Chime : In Canada and U.S.: If on, a chime will sound when you are waiting at a red traffic light and the light turns green.
If you are not actively using Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  and are waiting at a red light with a car in front of you, the chime sounds when the car options purchased, Self-Driving  hardware, and software version, your vehicle may not be equipped with Autosteer , or 2.
After carefully reading and understanding the popup Autosteer  is available when you are driving between 18 mph Autosteer  at lower speeds if there is a vehicle detected at Auto .
Although Autosteer  is available both during the day and unavailable if headlights are set to Off.When Autosteer  is engaged, Adaptive Headlights  (or, on some vehicles, Auto 1..
Move the drive stalk fully down twice in quick succession .Autosteer 2.To change the set speed, roll the right scroll wheel up to increase, or down to decrease.. For more information, see 3..
To cancel Autosteer , move the drive stalk upward  or press the brake pedal.
For more information, see Canceling When you engage Autosteer , Model 3  confirms activation with an audible chime and briefly displays a message on the touchscreen  reminding you to pay attention to the road and When Autosteer  is able to detect lane markings, it displays the edges of the driving lane in blue on the touchscreen .
Whenever Autosteer  is active, Traffic-Aware Cruise Control In situations where the speed limit cannot be detected when Autosteer  is engaged, Autosteer  reduces your driving speed Although you can manually accelerate to exceed the limited speed, Model 3  will not brake for detected obstacles as long as you are applying the accelerator pedal.
Autosteer  slows down to the limited speed when you release the accelerator pedal.
When you leave the road or disengage Autosteer  by using the steering wheel , you can increase your set speed Keep your hands on the steering wheel  at all times, be mindful of road conditions and surrounding traffic, and always be prepared to take immediate action.
Failure to follow these instructions could cause damage, serious injury or death.
It is your responsibility to familiarize yourself with the limitations of Autosteer  and the situations in which it may not work as expected.
For more information, see Self-Driving Limitations and options purchased, Self-Driving  hardware, and software version, your vehicle may not be equipped with Auto Lane Change , or the feature may not operate exactly as described.
If you engage a turn signal while Autosteer  is active, Model 3 moves into the adjacent lane in the direction indicated by the turn signal, provided the following conditions are met: • Lane markings indicate that a lane change is permitted.Autosteer • Midway through the lane change, Model 3  must detect the target lane's outside lane marking.
If this lane marking is not detected, the lane change is aborted and Model 3 • Model 3  does not detect a vehicle in its blind spot, or a vehicle or obstacle up to the center of the target lane.
If a vehicle or other obstacle is detected in the target lane, it is shown in red in the visualization on the touchscreen  and Model 3  does not complete the lane change until it is safe detect vehicles and obstacles in adjacent lanes, it is your responsibility to always perform visual checks to make sure it is safe and appropriate to move into the target lane.
If Auto Lane Change  cannot change lanes due to inadequate data, the touchscreen  displays a Change , always pay attention to the touchscreen  and The minimum speed at which Auto Lane Change  changes lanes may vary depending on region, adjacent lane speeds, and other factors.
Always be ready to manually steer and change lanes as necessary.
When an automatic lane change is in progress, Overtake Acceleration is activated, allowing Model 3  to accelerate closer to a vehicle in front (see When you engage a turn signal, Auto Lane Change  moves Model 3  one lane at a time.
Moving into an additional lane requires you to engage the turn signal a second time after the As Model 3  changes lanes, it is important to monitor its performance by watching the driving path in front of you and the surrounding area.
Stay prepared to take over steering at any time.
As you are crossing over into the adjacent lane, the touchscreen  displays the location in the lane that Model 3  is options purchased, Self-Driving  hardware, and software version, your vehicle may not be equipped with Navigate on Autosteer , or the feature may not operate exactly as To enable Navigate on Autosteer , touch Controls  > Self- how you want Navigate on Autosteer  to operate, touch • Enable at Start of Every Trip : Choose whether to automatically enable Navigate on Autosteer  for every Autosteer  button on the turn-by-turn direction list is • Speed Based Lane Changes : Navigate on Autosteer  is designed to perform both route-based and speed-based lane changes.
Speed-based lanes changes are optional.
You can use this setting to disable speed-based lane changes or to specify how assertively you want Navigate on Autosteer  to change lanes to achieve the set cruising • Exit Passing Lane : Choose whether you want Navigate on navigating to a destination.
In addition to route-based and requests a lane change out of a passing lane as a reminder to stay in a slower lane when you are not passing other vehicles.
Choose No to disable this and keep Model 3  in a default, Navigate on Autosteer  requires your confirmation before proceeding with a lane change by engaging the appropriate turn signal .
If you do not confirm the lane change within 3 seconds, a chime sounds to remind you that Navigate on Autosteer  requires your confirmation to • Lane Change Notification : You can specify if or how you want to be notified of lane changes ( Off, Chime , Vibrate , If Enable at Start of Every Trip  is turned on, Navigate on Once enabled, the Navigate on Autosteer  button appears on the map’s turn-by-turn direction list whenever a navigation route is active and the route includes at least one controlled- If Enable at Start of Every Trip  is turned off, touch the Navigate on Autosteer  button above the turn-by-turn directions to enable it.
Once the Navigate on Autosteer  is selected, it will engage whenever you engage Autosteer .
Whenever Navigate on Autosteer  is active, the Navigate on Autosteer  button is blue and the touchscreen  displays the driving lane as a single blue line in front of Model 3 : The turn-by-turn directions display the Autosteer  icon next automatically  makes both speed-based and route-based lane • Speed Based Lane Changes:  Navigate on Autosteer changes lanes to reduce driving time to your destination.
For example, if Model 3  is behind a vehicle going below the set cruising speed, Navigate on Autosteer  will move into the passing lane to pass it.
Speed-based lanes • Route Based Lane Changes:  Navigate on Autosteer changes lanes to route you to your destination.
For example, Navigate on Autosteer  will move into the exit lane as Model 3  approaches the off-ramp specified by the navigation route.If you ignore a route-based lane change suggestion (for example, you are driving in the left lane while approaching an off-ramp on the right side of the highway), Navigate on Autosteer  is unable to maneuver onto the off-ramp and as a at interchanges, Navigate on Autosteer  considers whether or Therefore, ensure the Use HOV Lanes  setting is appropriate 148).
If the setting is off, Navigate on Autosteer  never uses a HOV lane, regardless of time of day.If the setting is on, Navigate on Autosteer  uses HOV lanes, whenever applicable..
attempt to exit at an off-ramp or change lanes, even navigation route.
Always remain alert and be prepared to manually steer onto an off-ramp, or make a lane change to prepare for, or to exit at, an off-ramp or Navigate on Autosteer  activates and deactivates based on the type of road you are driving on.
When Navigate on Autosteer  is active and you approach an off-ramp or interchange along your navigation route, the appropriate turn signal engages and Autosteer  maneuvers Model 3  onto the When you leave a controlled-access highway Navigate on Autosteer  reverts to Autosteer —a chime sounds and the touchscreen  displays the driving lane lines in blue (instead of the single blue in front of Model 3 ).
When Navigate on Autosteer  deactivates, Autosteer  remains active.
Always be your hands on the steering wheel  at all times, be mindful of road conditions and surrounding traffic, and always be prepared to take immediate action.
Failure to follow these instructions could cause damage, serious injury or death.
It is your responsibility to familiarize yourself with the limitations of Navigate on Autosteer  and the situations in which it may not work as expected.
For more information, see Self-Driving hold it up for more than one second, Model 3  shifts • An Automatic Emergency Braking event occurs (see • The driver's seatbelt is released, and/or the driver gets remains active.
If Self-Driving Activation  is set to • You do not respond to repeated reminders to keep your When Autosteer  cancels, a chime sounds and the Autosteer icon either turns gray to indicate that Autosteer  is no longer active, or disappears to indicate that it is not currently Navigate on Autosteer  cancels when Autosteer  cancels, as described above.
In addition, Navigate on Autosteer  cancels • You touch the Navigate on Autosteer  button on the map’s turn-by-turn direction list.
In this case, Autosteer  is still • You leave a controlled-access highway.
When this happens, Autosteer  is still active.When Navigate on Autosteer  cancels but Autosteer  remains active, a chime sounds and the visualization goes from a single blue line in the driving lane to two blue lines on either When Autosteer  cancels, Model 3  does not coast.
Instead, regenerative braking slows down Model 3  in the same way as when you move your foot off the accelerator when driving When Autosteer  is active and maintaining a set speed, the speed is highlighted with blue text on the touchscreen .
When Autosteer  is active, the steering wheel  icon is blue and the lane markings are highlighted in blue on the visualization.
If Navigate on Autosteer  is also active, the Navigate on Autosteer  button is blue and the touchscreen  displays the driving lane as a single blue line in front of Model 3 .
If unable to detect lane markings, Autosteer  may determine the driving lane based on a vehicle you are following.In most cases, Autosteer  attempts to center Model 3  in the driving lane..
However, there may be situations in which Autosteer follows a driving path that is offset from the center of the When Autosteer  is active, Model 3  maintains your set cruising speed whenever a vehicle is not detected in front of it.
When cruising behind a vehicle, Model 3  accelerates and decelerates as needed to maintain a chosen following You can manually accelerate at any time by pressing the accelerator pedal, but when you release the pedal Model 3 Model 3  also adjusts the cruising speed when entering and When Model 3  is actively slowing down to maintain the selected distance from the vehicle ahead, brake lights turn on.
You may notice slight movement of the brake pedal.
However, when Model 3  is accelerating, the accelerator pedal Roll the right scroll wheel up to increase, or down to To change the cruising speed to the current speed limit • Press the speed limit sign on the touchscreen.Autosteer It may take a few seconds for Model 3  to reach the new or a road that is not controlled access, the maximum allowed cruising speed is limited and the touchscreen  displays a message.
The restricted speed will be the speed limit of the To adjust the following distance  you want to maintain between Model 3  and a vehicle traveling ahead of you, press the steering wheel's right scroll button to the left or right.
Each setting corresponds to a time-based distance that represents how long it takes for Model 3 , from its current location, to reach the location of the rear bumper of the vehicle ahead of you.
Autosteer  retains your setting until you As you adjust the following distance, the touchscreen When moving significantly faster than vehicles in adjacent lanes, Model 3  automatically reduces the driving speed.
This is especially helpful in heavy traffic situations or when vehicles are constantly merging into different lanes.
When Model 3  detects other vehicles driving significantly slower, the touchscreen  highlights the adjacent lanes with arrows and detected vehicles in gray, and Model 3  reduces the driving speed as appropriate.
To temporarily override this When following a vehicle, Autosteer  remains active at low speeds, even when Model 3  comes to a full stop.
For example, Autosteer  remains active even if Model 3  slows down to a complete or near-complete stop in heavy, stop- and-go traffic on a highway.
When traffic starts moving more rapidly, Autosteer  again accelerates up to the set speed.Sometimes when Model 3  is at a full stop, Autosteer  goes into a HOLD state..
If this happens, briefly press the Model 3  goes into HOLD state while Autosteer  is active in the • Model 3  has been at a standstill for 5 minutes.
• Model 3  detects a pedestrian (the HOLD state may clear • Model 3  suddenly loses visibility of the vehicle in front of When you are cruising near an exit on a controlled-access highway and engage the turn signal toward the off-ramp, Autosteer  assumes you are exiting and begins to slow down Model 3 .
If you do not drive onto the off-ramp, Autosteer In a region with right hand traffic, this occurs only when you engage the right turn signal when driving in the right-most with left hand traffic, this occurs when engaging the left turn signal when driving in the left-most lane within 164 ft.
(50 perform a route-based lane change to enter the exit lane and take the off-ramp as necessary to follow the navigation route.
When enabled while on a highway interchange or off-ramp, Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  may reduce your set speed in – to better match the reported speeds of other Tesla vehicles that have driven at that specific location.
To override this and continue cruising at your set speed, tap the accelerator pedal.
The new set speed is maintained for the duration of the interchange or off-ramp (unless you override it or cancel Autosteer ).
After the interchange or off-ramp, the set speed may revert or change as necessary based on the new location.
For example, if you merged onto a different highway, the set cruising speed reverts to what it was before interchange or off-ramp.
Do not rely on Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  to determine an appropriate driving speed.
Tesla recommends driving at a speed that is When cruising onto an on-ramp to a controlled-access highway, Autosteer  automatically adjusts the set cruising speed to the speed limit of the highway, plus any offset you have specified.
If Navigate on Autosteer  is engaged, it disengages as you leave the controlled-access highway (see Engage the turn signal momentarily to accelerate Model 3 towards the vehicle ahead of it.
By momentarily holding the turn signal  stalk up or down , you can quickly accelerate up to your set speed without having to press the accelerator pedal • Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  is operating and detects a • No obstacles or vehicles are detected in the target lane.
• Model 3  is traveling below the set speed, but over 45 mph signal, Model 3  will change lanes automatically (see Auto Model 3  stops accelerating when you reach your set cruising speed, if changing lanes takes too long, or if Model 3  gets too close the vehicle ahead.
Model 3  also stops accelerating touchscreen  and sounds a chime if it detects that you are likely to run through a red stop light or stop sign.
If this or when you press the brake pedal, whichever comes first.does not slow down or stop Model 3  at red traffic lights, stop signs, road markings, etc..
If equipped with Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control , you can enable this feature to automatically stop Model 3  at traffic lights and stop signs If available in your market region, Model 3  automatically reduces driving speed when lights from an emergency vehicle are detected when using Autosteer  at night on a high speed road.
When this happens, the touchscreen  displays a message informing you of the slowdown.You will also hear a chime, and see a reminder to keep your hands on the steering wheel ..
When the light detections pass by or cease to appear, Autosteer  resumes your cruising speed.Alternatively, you may tap the accelerator to resume your cruising speed..
Never depend on Autosteer  features to determine the presence of emergency vehicles.Model 3  may not detect lights from emergency vehicles..
Keep your eyes on your driving path and always be prepared to take immediate In situations where Self-Driving  is unable to steer Model 3 , a When you see this message, take over steering immediately .
Autosteer  requires driver attentiveness.
Y our hands must be on the steering wheel at all times while Autosteer  is engaged, and you must monitor your surroundings, the road, and other Autosteer  periodically displays a message reminding the driver to apply slight force to the steering wheel: Autosteer  detects your hands by recognizing slight resistance as the steering wheel turns, or from you manually turning the steering wheel very lightly (without enough force to take over steering).
Autosteer  also qualifies your hands as being detected if you engage a turn signal use the Autosteer stalk, or use a button or scroll wheel on the steering wheel.
If Model 3  does not detect slight turning force on the steering wheel, the touchscreen  flashes and eventually chimes repeatedly.
Do not use handheld devices while Autosteer  is If you repeatedly ignore prompts to apply slight force to the steering wheel or to pay attention, Autosteer  disables for the rest of the drive and displays the following message requesting you to drive manually.
If you don't resume manual steering, Autosteer  sounds a continuous chime, turns on the Use of Self-Driving  features will be suspended if improper suspended for a week when you or another driver of your vehicle receives five "strikeouts." A strikeout is when the Self-Driving  system disengages for the remainder of a trip You can see how many strikeouts are remaining before Self- Driving  access is suspended by touching Controls  > Self- However,  you can still use Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  and There may be occasions where driver intervention is required and you must take over immediately to maintain safe driving.
Driver-initiated disengagements do not count as improper options purchased, Self-Driving  hardware, and software version, your vehicle may not be equipped with Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control , or the feature may not operate and works best on roads that are frequently driven by Tesla vehicles.
Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control  attempts to stop at all traffic lights and may also stop at green lights.
Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control  is designed to recognize and respond to traffic lights and stop signs, slowing Model 3 to a stop when using Traffic-Aware cruise control  or Autosteer .
This feature uses the vehicle's forward-facing cameras, in addition to GPS data, and slows the car for all detected traffic lights, including green, blinking yellow, and off lights in addition to stop signs and some road markings.
As Model 3  approaches an intersection, the touchscreen displays a notification indicating the intention to slow down.
You must confirm that you want to continue or Model 3  stops at the red line displayed on the touchscreen 's driving and where Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control  will stop or continue through an intersection or road marking.
From a driver's perspective, the behavior of Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control may appear inconsistent.Always pay attention to the roadway and be prepared to take immediate action..
It is the driver's responsibility to determine whether to stop or continue through an intersection.
Never depend on Traffic Light and Stop Before using Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control , you must: • Ensure that forward-facing cameras are unobstructed Stop Sign Control  depends on the ability of the cameras to detect traffic lights, stop signs, and road markings.
downloaded to Model 3 .Although Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control primarily uses visual data received from the vehicle's cameras, greater accuracy is achieved when using the most recent map data..
To check which version of maps is currently downloaded, touch Controls  > Software .You must connect to a Wi-Fi network to receive • Enable the feature..
With the vehicle in Park, touch Controls  > Self-Driving  and then touch Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control .
Once enabled, Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control  operates whenever Traffic-Aware Cruise When Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control  is enabled and you are using Traffic-Aware Cruise Control , Autosteer , Full Self- message to inform you that an upcoming traffic light, stop sign, or road marking has been detected.
As it approaches the stop location, even at an intersection where the traffic light is green, Model 3  slows down and displays a red line to indicate where Model 3  will stop.
To continue through the intersection—even if the traffic light is green —you must press down on the drive stalk or briefly press the accelerator pedal to give the vehicle permission to proceed.
When you've confirmed that you want to proceed, the red stop line turns gray and Model 3  continues through the intersection and that a vehicle in front of you is continuing through the intersection, Model 3  continues through the intersection without requiring your confirmation, provided you are not in a turning lane and the vehicle can detect that your hands are press the accelerator pedal to confirm that you want to continue through the intersection, the traffic signal changes before you enter the intersection (for example, the light changes from green to yellow or from yellow to red), Model 3 may determine that it is not appropriate to proceed.
Therefore, Model 3  stops and you must press the accelerator to proceed.At all times, it is your responsibility to ensure the vehicle stops or accelerates appropriately and safely..
NOT turn Model 3  through an intersection  unless Full turning lane, Model 3  stops at the red stop line.
To proceed, press down on the drive stalk or briefly press the accelerator pedal— Model 3  continues straight Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control  is designed to operate as described only when the following conditions are met: • One of the following Self-Driving  features is engaged: • The cameras can detect an upcoming traffic light, stop unobstructed and have a clear line-of-sight to the traffic • The touchscreen  on Model 3  is displaying an upcoming acknowledge traffic lights that the touchscreen  shows as faded.
If a traffic light is not directly ahead of the camera (for example, it is located at an angle of the camera's view, or located in an adjacent lane) the touchscreen  displays it as faded and Model 3  does not slow down and stop for it.Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control stop line at an upcoming intersection, Model 3  does not slow down or stop.
It is the driver's responsibility to pay attention to upcoming intersections and monitor traffic conditions to determine when and if the vehicle should stop and then to take appropriate action as proceed through, an intersection.
Drive attentively by watching the road and paying attention to the roadway, upcoming intersections, traffic conditions, crosswalks, responsibility to determine whether to stop or proceed.
Be prepared to take immediate action.Failure to do so Sign Control  may inaccurately detect a traffic light or stop sign, causing Model 3  to slow down unexpectedly..
Be prepared to take immediate action at all times.briefly press the accelerator pedal to confirm that you want to proceed through an intersection, regardless of the status of the traffic light..
If you do not confirm, Model 3  stops at the red stop line displayed on the touchscreen , even if stopping may be inappropriate.
Stopping at a green light may confuse other drivers and may result in a collision, injury or death.
Therefore, always pay attention to upcoming intersections and be prepared to manually brake or accelerate in response traffic light, stop sign, or road marking (especially at a complex intersection, or an intersection in which a traffic light or sign is partially obstructed, etc.) means that Model 3  can also see it and respond appropriately.
include all traffic lights and stop signs.Therefore, Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control relies heavily on the ability of the cameras to detect traffic lights, stop signs, road markings, etc..
As a result, Model 3  may camera's view (for example, obstructed by a tree or a large vehicle or object, or located near a steep hill or substitute for attentive driving and sound judgment.Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control When driving with Autosteer  or Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  engaged, and Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control  enabled, Model 3  is designed to respond as follows when approaching intersections controlled by a traffic light: If you are following a car in front of you that continues through the intersection, the touchscreen  displays a green stop line and provided your hands are detected on the If a car is not in front of you, the touchscreen  displays a red stop line.
You must confirm that you want to continue through the intersection by press down on the drive stalk or briefly pressing the accelerator pedal.
If you don’t confirm, Model 3  stops at the red stop intersection, taking into consideration the speed of a vehicle in front of you.
Model 3  slows down and comes to a complete stop at the red stop line displayed on the touchscreen .
When you want to continue through the intersection (for example, the light turns green again, or once Model 3  has come to a complete stop), you must press down on the drive stalk or briefly press the accelerator pedal.
Model 3  slows down and comes to a complete stop at the red stop line displayed on the touchscreen .
When you want to proceed through the intersection (for example, the light turns green again), you must press down on the drive stalk or briefly press the accelerator example, a green traffic light turns yellow), Model 3  may stop instead of continuing, especially if Model 3  determines that it can safely stop before entering the intersection.
red or if the light turns yellow in situations when there is adequate distance to safely stop Traffic-Aware Cruise Control .Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control Model 3  slows down.
To proceed, you must press down on the drive stalk or briefly press the accelerator pedal.
If you don’t, Model 3  stops at the red stop line displayed on the approaches, you can confirm that you want to proceed by press down on the drive stalk or briefly pressing the accelerator pedal at any time after the touchscreen  displays the red stop line.
Model 3  resumes your set cruising speed immediately after you confirm (taking into consideration the speed of a vehicle in front of you).
Model 3  slows down and comes to a complete stop at the red stop line displayed on the touchscreen .
When you want to proceed through the intersection (for example, traffic laws and conditions indicate it is safe and legal to proceed), you must press down on the drive stalk or briefly press the accelerator pedal.Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control When driving with Autosteer  or Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  engaged, and Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control  enabled, Model 3  is designed to respond as follows when approaching intersections controlled by stop signs, stop lines, or road Arm of T-junctionModel 3  assumes the right of way and continues straight without slowing down or stopping.
End of T-junctionIf Model 3  detects a T-junction based on the map data, Model 3  slows down and comes to a complete stop at the red stop line displayed on the touchscreen .
When you want to proceed, line, or if the T-junction is not included in the map data.
Drive attentively and be Stop SignModel 3  slows down and comes to a complete stop at the red stop line displayed on the touchscreen .
When you want to proceed through the intersection, you must press down on the drive stalk or briefly press the accelerator pedal.
sign by press down on the drive stalk or briefly pressing the accelerator pedal before Model 3 has stopped, your confirmation is ignored.
Model 3  is not designed to proceed through a stop and press down on the drive stalk or briefly press the accelerator pedal to confirm that you want to continue through the traffic light and whether the cameras detect pedestrians, bicyclists, etc.
in the crosswalk.Pay particular attention at crosswalks and be prepared to take over at any time.. Failure to do so can result in injury or death..
Depending on many different circumstances and environmental conditions, Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control  may or may not • Miscellaneous traffic U-turn lights, bicycle and pedestrian crossing lights, lane availability lights, etc.
In addition, Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control  is particularly unlikely to operate as intended, can disengage, or may not operate, when one or more of the following conditions are present: • Driving through consecutive light-controlled intersections that are very close to each other.
• A camera is obstructed, covered, damaged, or not properly calibrated.Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control • Driving on a hill or on a road that has sharp curves on which the cameras are unable to see upcoming traffic lights or stop • Model 3  is being driven very close to a vehicle in front of it, which is blocking the view of a camera.
Many unforeseen circumstances can adversely impact the accurate operation of Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control.
Using this feature does not reduce or eliminate the need to drive attentively and responsibly.
You must be prepared to take appropriate and immediate action at all times.Traffic Light and Stop Sign Control options purchased, Self-Driving  hardware, and software version, your vehicle may not be equipped with Autopark .
Autopark  uses data to simplify parking on public roads by maneuvering Model 3  into parallel and perpendicular parking Control  is enabled.
To use Autopark , enable Autosteer  or Full is suspended, you also lose access to Autopark .
For more yourself with the limitations of Autopark  and the situations in which it may not work as expected.
For more information, see Self-Driving Limitations and CAUTION:  Do not use Autopark  if anything, such as a ball hitch, bike rack, or trailer, is attached to the tow hitch.
Autopark  may not stop for hitches when parking proximity to curbs, objects, and other vehicles.
Ensure all cameras are clean and free of obstructions before each drive and before using the features described in environmental conditions such as rain and faded lane obstructed or blinded, Model 3  displays a message on the touchscreen  and Self-Driving  features may not be Autopark  detects potential parking spaces based on the driving too fast, Autopark  may not be able to accurately • The parking space must be at least as wide as your • The parking space must have at least three visible lines for the vehicle to park into, such as parking lines, road markings, or distinct curbs.
Autopark  may not work in a garage, for example, without three visible parking lines.
• Autopark  may not work with textured road surfaces such driving too fast, Autopark  may not be able to accurately • There must be a vehicle in front of or behind the space When driving, follow these steps to allow Autopark  to 1.
While driving slowly, monitor the touchscreen  (after making sure that it is safe to do so) to see potential vehicle's position and/or the circumstances of the surrounding area are such that Autopark  can determine an appropriate driving path.
If Autopark  cannot determine an appropriate path (for example, when driving on a narrow street where moving into the parking space causes the front of the vehicle to extend into the adjacent lane), you can either reposition the vehicle, find a different parking 2.
Choose a spot, then release the steering wheel  and touch 3.Autopark  displays a message when parking is complete..
If you press the brake pedal when Autopark  is actively parking Model 3 , the parking process cancels.Autopark CAUTION:  Model 3  does not brake if you choose to override the current speed by pressing the accelerator pedal while Autopark  is active.
In this case, Autopark space that is legal, suitable, and safe.Autopark  may not always detect objects in the parking space..
Always perform visual checks to confirm that a parking space • Do not interfere with the movement of the steering • Continually check your surroundings.
Be prepared to apply the brakes to avoid vehicles, pedestrians, aware of the instructions that Autopark  is providing.• You press the right scroll button on the steering wheel ..
In situations where Autopark  is unable to steer Model 3 , • Model 3  detects that a door is opened or that the driver is • One or more of the cameras is damaged, dirty, obstructed (such as by mud, ice, or snow, or by adhesive products • An Automatic Emergency Braking event occurs (see When you see this message, take over immediately .Autopark options purchased, Self-Driving  hardware, and software version, your vehicle may not be equipped with Actually Smart Summon  and Dumb Summon , or the features may not Summon  allows you to park and retrieve Model 3  using the Tesla mobile app while you are standing outside of your Summon  includes both Dumb Summon  and Actually Smart Dumb Summon  moves Model 3  straight forward and reverse Actually Smart Summon  is designed to move Model 3  to destination) or to a location of your choice, maneuvering While Summon  is active, it is recommended that you maintain clear line of sight between you and Model 3 .
Closely monitor the vehicle and its surroundings at all times and familiarize 1.Enable Dumb Summon  and Actually Smart Summon  by touching Controls  > Self-Driving  > ASS (Actually Smart Summon) ..
After carefully reading and understanding the externally upon Model 3  reaching its destination.
◦ Emissions on Abort : When enabled, Model 3  performs an emissions system test if your Summon  session is distance that you want Dumb Summon  to stop from a objects that Dumb Summon  detects directly in front of to summon and reduce the time it takes to warm up, turn consumed while Standby Mode is active.
When Standby Mode  is turned on, you can conserve Battery energy by disabling Standby Mode at these locations (see Home, ◦ Exclude Work - Disables Standby Mode at the location ◦ Exclude Favorites - Disables Standby Mode at any To conserve energy, Summon  automatically exits Standby Mode  from midnight to 6:00 am and when Model 3  is in During these hours, a delay occurs as Summon  starts up.
If Model 3  remains in Park for over 24 hours, Standby 4.Download the latest version of the Tesla mobile app.. Summon  requires Tesla mobile app version 4.38.0 or later..
◦ Your phone is connected to Model 3  and that you are ◦ You are on private property.
Summon  is designed and intended for use only on parking lots and driveways ◦ The vehicle's cameras are fully calibrated (see Drive to ◦ Model 3  is in Park, not charging, and all doors and ◦ All four tire pressures are 34 PSI or higher, as reported more information about checking and maintaining tire To use Summon , your phone must be connected to Model 3 away from the connected phone while Summon  is active, connected phone, Summon  pauses, and if Model 3  is over In any of the cases above, the Tesla mobile app provides haptic feedback and displays a message informing you that Model 3  is close to, or has exceeded, the operating range of the feature.
If moving the vehicle to a destination away from you, you may need to follow the car to stay within the continuously, Summon  aborts and Model 3  shifts into Park.
Follow these steps to use Summon  to park or retrieve your The following steps describe how to operate both Dumb Summon , which moves Model 3  straight into or out of a parking space, and Actually Smart Summon , which allows Model 3  to navigate around obstacles to come to you or to space so that Model 3  can follow a straight path into or The mobile app displays live camera feeds from Model 3 to assist you in determining if the vehicle's surroundings device must be set up as a phone key to Model 3  (see feeds in the Tesla mobile app, the headlights flash periodically.
If your vehicle is equipped with Premium Connectivity, the live camera feed shares the same time limit as the View Live Camera  feature of Sentry Mode, 134).
If your vehicle is not equipped with Premium Connectivity, the camera stream is limited to 2 minutes.
However, there is no limit to the camera stream when Summon  is actively moving Model 3 , regardless of yourself anywhere within the blue circle where you have a crosshair icon, then drag the map to position the pin on a chosen destination.
To subsequently change the location, lift your finger, reposition the map, then press and hold Go 6.
Model 3  shifts into Drive or Reverse, then moves slowly straight forward or in reverse  (if you are using Dumb If you are using Come to Me  or Go to Target , Model 3 navigates obstacles as needed.
If you are using Dumb Summon , Model 3  attempts to avoid obstacles while staying very close to its original path.
Dumb Summon  is not designed to steer around obstacles significantly blocking its path.If Model 3  is unable to steer around an obstacle, Dumb Summon  comes to a stop and completes..
The mobile app will show you some of the camera feeds from Model 3  for better supervision.Still, it is recommended to have a direct line of sight to the vehicle 7..
To stop Model 3  at any time, simply release the Forward  or Reverse  button , or the Come to Me  or Go to Target  button .Forward  or Reverse  button in the Tesla mobile app..
Likewise, to resume an Actually Smart Summon  session, simply press the Come to Me  or Go to Target  button again.position, release the Forward  or Reverse  button..
When immediately and will shift into Park after several seconds.flash for several seconds, Model 3  shifts into Park, and Model 3 , a slight delay occurs before the vehicle stops..
Therefore, it is critical that you pay close attention to the vehicle’s driving path at all times and proactively anticipate obstacles that the vehicle Summon  cancels, and requires you to restart it, when: • You interact with the steering wheel , brake pedal, • Model 3  has moved the maximum distance of 1,558 ft.
minutes, since the start of the Summon  session.Summon • Your phone enters sleep mode or loses connectivity to • Model 3  is in Dog Mode (see Keep Climate On, Dog, and • Model 3  is in Track Mode or Drag Strip Mode  (if In addition, Actually Smart Summon  is disabled on public roads.
Actually Smart Summon  is designed and intended for use only on parking lots and driveways located on private property where the surrounding area is familiar and public roads.
Use Dumb Summon  on public roads only Summon 's performance depends on the ability of the cameras to determine the vehicle's proximity to objects, people, animals, and other vehicles.
Summon  is unlikely to operate as intended, and/or may abort, in the following types • There is an accessory such as a roof rack, trailer hitch, body kit, etc.
mounted on or otherwise attached to Model 3.When Summon  is steering Model 3  to avoid detected obstacles, it does not account for accessories that extend • A raised edge is detected..
Summon  does not move Model • Weather conditions (heavy rain, snow, fog, or extremely hot or cold temperatures) are interfering with camera • Model 3  is in Trailer Mode or an accessory is attached.
• GPS data is unavailable or there is poor cellular coverage.• The driving path has a slope of greater than 20%..
Summon  is designed to operate only on flat or gently moving Model 3  on a grade higher than 10%, vehicle operate at grades above 10% if conditions are poor.
exhaustive list of situations that may interfere with responsibility to remain in control of Model 3  at all actively moving Model 3  and stay prepared to take immediate action.
Failure to do so can result in serious before each drive and before using the features described in conditions such as rain and faded lane markings, can affect performance.
If a camera is obstructed or blinded, Model 3 displays a message on the touchscreen  and Self-Driving continually monitor the vehicle and its surroundings and stay prepared to take immediate action at any time.
It is the driver's responsibility to use Actually Smart as intended.
Summon  is designed and intended for use only on parking lots and driveways located on private property where the surrounding area is familiar and predictable.
Do not use Actually Smart Summon  on public roads.Only use Dumb Summon  on public roads with extreme caution..
It is your responsibility to familiarize yourself with the limitations of Summon  (see time.
If Actually Smart Summon  aborts for a safety- related reason, Model 3  may stop suddenly or without Model 3 .
Depending on the quality of the connectivity between the phone and Model 3 , there may be a slight delay between when you release the button and when in environments where movement of obstacles can be unpredictable.
For example, where people, children or curbs, or very high objects such as a shelf) and may not react to all oncoming or side traffic.Model 3 cameras' blind spots near the vehicle's front fenders..
Pay attention and be ready to stop Model 3  at all times there is an accessory such as a roof rack, trailer hitch, body kit, etc.mounted on or otherwise attached to Model 3 ..
When Summon  is steering Model 3  to avoid accessories that extend beyond Model 3 .
Pay attention and be ready to stop Model 3  at all times by releasing located in the cameras' blind spots near the vehicle's front fenders, are very narrow, or are hanging from a unforeseen circumstances can impair Summon 's ability to move in or out of a parking space and, as a result, Therefore, you must continually monitor the vehicle's movement and its surroundings and remain prepared to pertaining to the following Self-Driving  features.
options purchased, Self-Driving  hardware, and software version, your vehicle may not be equipped with these features, or these features may not operate exactly as Ensure all cameras are clean and free of obstructions before each drive and before using the features described in this conditions such as rain and faded lane markings, can affect performance.
If a camera is obstructed or blinded, Model 3 displays a message on the touchscreen  and Self-Driving Before you can use Self-Driving  features, and after some Service visits, you must drive a short distance to calibrate cameras.
For more information, see Drive to Calibrate In addition, these features may not work as intended when: • The road has sharp curves or significant changes in • Road signs and signals are unclear, ambiguous, or poorly • Visibility is poor (due to heavy rain, snow, hail, etc.
or • You are driving in a tunnel or next to a highway divider • Bright light (such as from oncoming headlights or direct The list above does not represent an exhaustive list of situations that may interfere with proper operation of Self- Driving  features.
For more information, see Limitations and carefully before using Self-Driving .
Failure to follow all While using Traffic-Aware Cruise Control , it is the driver’s responsibility to stay alert, drive safely, and be in control of the vehicle at all times.
Always keep your eyes on the road when driving and be prepared to take corrective action as needed.In addition, it is the driver’s responsibility to cruise at a safe speed and maintain a safe following distance based on road conditions and applicable speed limits.
Be aware of the following limitations while Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  is • There may be situations where the cruising speed may not • Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  does not adapt driving speed based on road and driving conditions.
Do not use Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  on winding roads with sharp curves, on icy or slippery road surfaces, or when weather • Do not rely on Traffic-Aware Cruise Control to maintain an • Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  may be unable to provide capability and hills.
It can also misjudge the distance from a vehicle ahead.
Driving downhill can increase driving speed, causing Model 3  to exceed your set speed (and • Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  may occasionally cause Model 3  to brake when not required or when you are not expecting it.
This can be caused by closely following a vehicle ahead, detecting vehicles or objects in adjacent • Due to limitations inherent in the onboard GPS (Global Positioning System), you may experience situations in which Model 3  slows down, especially near exits or off- navigating to a destination and not following the route.
Aware Cruise Control  may not automatically reduce the • Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  may not detect all objects may not brake/decelerate when a vehicle or object is only partially in the driving lane or when a vehicle you are following moves out of your driving path and a stationary or slow-moving vehicle or object is in front of you.
• Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  may react to vehicles or objects that either do not exist, or are not in your lane of travel, causing Model 3  to slow down unnecessarily or unlikely to operate as intended in the following types of • The road has sharp curves or significant changes in • Road signs and signals are unclear, ambiguous, or • Visibility is poor (due to heavy rain, snow, hail, etc.
• You are driving in a tunnel or next to a highway • Bright light (such as from oncoming headlights or exhaustive list of situations that may interfere with proper operation of Traffic-Aware Cruise Control .
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  can cancel unexpectedly at any time for unforeseen reasons.Always watch the appropriate action..
It is the driver's responsibility to be for your driving comfort and convenience and is not a on Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  to adequately slow down Model 3 .
Always watch the road in front of you and be prepared to take corrective action at all times.Failure to do so can result in serious injury or death..
capable of detecting pedestrians and cyclists, never depend on Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  to adequately slow Model 3  down for them.
Failure to do so can result hands on the steering wheel at all times, be mindful of road conditions and surrounding traffic, and always be prepared to take immediate action.
Failure to follow these instructions could cause damage, serious injury driver.
Do not use Autosteer  in construction zones, or CAUTION:  Autosteer  and its associated functions are particularly unlikely to operate as intended when: • Autosteer  is unable to accurately determine lane over, or merging), objects or landscape features are casting strong shadows on the lane markings, or the • A vehicle is detected in your blind spot when you • Model 3  is being driven very close to a vehicle in the operation of Autosteer .
Always keep this in mind and remember that as a result, Autosteer  may not steer Model 3  appropriately.
Always drive attentively and be steer Model 3  around objects partially in a driving lane and in some cases, may not stop for objects that are completely blocking the driving lane.
Always watch the immediate action.
It is the driver's responsibility to be Change , It is the driver's responsibility to determine Therefore, before initiating a lane change, always check blind spots, lane markings, and the surrounding roadway to confirm it is safe and appropriate to move CAUTION:  Be aware of the following limitations while with sharp curves, on icy or slippery roads, or when weather conditions (such as heavy rain, snow, fog, unforeseen reasons in addition to those listed above • Overtake Acceleration increases your driving speed ahead, it is important to be aware that your selected Acceleration is active, particularly in cases where it on-board maps to know that a particular stop light or stop sign exists at a location.
In some cases, map data is inaccurate or outdated and may not include all stop lights or stop signs.
Therefore, Stop Light and Stop feature does not apply the brakes or decelerate Model 3 and may not detect all stop lights and stop signs.
guidance purposes only and is not a substitute for attentive driving and sound judgment.
Keep your eyes designed to warn you only when approaching a visible red stop sign, solid red or later portion of a yellow traffic light.
It may not warn you of intersections with flashing lights and it does not warn you of yield signs or temporary stop and yield signs (such as those used in construction areas).
Additionally, Stop Light and Stop determine an appropriate lane at an off-ramp.
Stay alert and perform visual checks to ensure that the Confirmation , Navigate on Autosteer  notifies you of upcoming lane changes and off-ramps, but it remains your responsibility to monitor the environment and maintain control of Model 3  at all times.
Lane changes hands on the wheel and your eyes on the driving path road, keep your hands on the steering wheel at all careful around blind corners, interchanges, and on- ramps and off-ramps - obstacles can appear quickly special-use lanes such as those used exclusively for bikes, carpools, emergency vehicles, etc.
Remain alert at all times and be prepared to take immediate action.
determine the vehicle's proximity to curbs, objects, • Do not use Autopark  if anything, such as a ball hitch, bike rack, or trailer, is attached to the tow • Never depend on Autopark  to find a parking space that is legal, suitable, and safe.
Autopark  may not always detect objects in the parking space.Always • When Autopark  is actively steering Model 3 , the Autopark 's adjustments.. Do not interfere with the your surroundings..
Be prepared to apply the brakes • When Autopark  is active, monitor the touchscreen to ensure that you are aware of the instructions that Autopark  is particularly unlikely to operate as intended • The road is sloped.
Autopark  is designed to operate • The target parking space is directly adjacent to a wall or pillar (for example, the last parking space of by mud, ice, or snow, or by a vehicle bra, excessive paint, or adhesive products such as wraps, stickers, Autopark 's ability to park Model 3 .
Keep this in mind and remember that as a result, Autopark  may not steer Model 3  appropriately.
Pay attention when parking Model 3  monitors the markers on the lane you are driving in as well as the surrounding areas for the presence of vehicles October 2022, Lane Assist does not show visualizations (colored lines on the touchscreen  corresponding to detected objects) when Model 3  is in motion, or the visualizations may When an object is detected in your blind spot or near the side touchscreen  displays colored lines radiating from the image of your vehicle.
The location of the lines correspond to the location of the detected object.
The color of the lines (white, yellow, orange, or red) represent the object's proximity to Model 3 , with white being the farthest and red being the closest and requiring your immediate attention.
These Autosteer  is active, these colored lines also display if driving not display if Model 3  is at a standstill (for example, in heavy obstructions before each drive and before using the features described in this topic (see Cleaning a Camera equipped),  as well as environmental conditions such as rain and faded lane markings, can affect performance.
If a camera is obstructed or blinded, Model 3  displays a message on the touchscreen  and Self-Driving  features purposes only and are not intended to replace your always use side mirrors and perform the appropriate shoulder checks to visually determine if it is safe and if you unintentionally drive outside of the driving lane, or to inform you that there is a vehicle beside you or in your blind spot.
Several external factors can reduce the responsibility to stay alert and pay attention to the driving lane and other road users.
Failure to do so can Lane Assist provides steering interventions if Model 3  drifts a vehicle, is detected.In these situations, Model 3 automatically steers to a safer position in the driving lane..
This steering is applied only when Model 3  is traveling with clearly visible lane markings.
When a steering intervention is applied, the touchscreen  briefly displays a Lane Departure Avoidance is designed to warn you if Model 3 is drifting out of, or nears the edge of, your driving lane.
Lane Departure Avoidance operates when driving between visible lane markings.
You can choose if and how you want Self-Driving  and then touching Lane Departure Avoidance  and • Off: You are not warned of lane departures or potential blue indicator line appears on the touchscreen  and the steering wheel  vibrates.
(For vehicles equipped with Full • Assist : A blue indicator line, corresponding to the line touchscreen.
Corrective steering is applied to keep Model 3 in a safe position if Model 3  drifts into an adjacent lane When Lane Departure Avoidance is enabled and Traffic- Aware Cruise Control  is active, if Model 3  drifts out of the driving lane when the associated turn signal is off, Lane Assist also checks to see whether your hands are on the steering wheel .
If hands are not detected, the touchscreen displays a series of alerts , similar to those that are used when driving with Autosteer .
If hands are repeatedly not detected detected speed limit, or below the set cruising speed, and departures, or provide steering interventions, if the associated turn signal is on, which indicates an intentional not designed to move Model 3  out of its driving lane.
Do not rely on steering interventions to avoid side Emergency Lane Departure Avoidance automatically applies steering to avoid a potential collision in situations where: • Model 3  is departing a lane and may collide with a vehicle traveling in the same direction in the adjacent lane • Model 3  is departing a lane into an oncoming lane, the turn signal is off, and an oncoming vehicle is detected.
• Model 3  is departing the road and the turn signal is off (for example, very close to the edge of the road and a To turn this feature on or off, touch Controls  > Self-Driving and then touch Emergency Lane Departure Avoidance .
steering, a chime sounds and the touchscreen  displays a Emergency Lane Departure Avoidance operates when Model road with clearly visible lane markings, curbs, etc.Avoidance to prevent a collision..
Several factors can potential collision can result in serious injury or death.
If you want a chime to sound when a vehicle is in your blind spot and a possible collision is detected, touch Controls  > detect every collision.
It is the driver's responsibility to Lane Assist features cannot always detect lane markings and • Visibility is poor and lane markings are not clearly visible • Bright light (such as from oncoming headlights or direct • A vehicle in front of Model 3  is blocking the view of the markings, have been adjusted due to road construction, or are changing quickly (for example, lanes branching off, • Objects or landscape features are casting strong shadows damaged, dirty, or obstructed (by mud, ice, or snow, or by a vehicle bra, excessive paint, or adhesive products such • Weather conditions (heavy rain, snow, fog, or extremely hot or cold temperatures) are interfering with sensor equipment or devices that generate ultrasonic waves.
• An object that is mounted to Model 3  is interfering with and/or obstructing a sensor (such as a bike rack or a In addition, Lane Assist may not steer Model 3  away from an adjacent vehicle, or may apply unnecessary or inappropriate • You are driving Model 3  on sharp corners or on a curve at • Bright light (such as from oncoming headlights or direct • You are drifting into another lane but an object (such as a • A vehicle in another lane cuts in front of you or drifts into • Model 3  is not traveling within the speeds at which the dirty, or obstructed (such as by mud, ice, or snow, or by a vehicle bra, excessive paint, or adhesive products such as • Weather conditions (heavy rain, snow, fog, or extremely hot or cold temperatures) are interfering with sensor equipment or devices that generate ultrasonic waves.
• An object mdsounted to Model 3  (such as a bike rack or a bumper sticker) is interfering with or obstructing a sensor.
• Visibility is poor and lane markings are not clearly visible • Lane markings are excessively worn, have visible previous markings, have been adjusted due to road construction or are changing quickly (for example, lanes branching off, CAUTION:  Driver assistance features are automatically disabled when Track Mode is On.
It is the driver’s responsibility to drive safely and be in control of the possible situation that may interfere with Lane Assist features.
There are many reasons why Lane Assist may not operate as intended.
To avoid a collision, stay alert anticipate the need to take corrective action as early as The following collision avoidance features are designed to a high risk of a frontal collision (see Forward Collision • Automatic Emergency Braking  - automatically applies braking to reduce the impact of a collision (see Automatic • Obstacle-Aware Acceleration  - reduces acceleration if Model 3  detects an object in its immediate driving path CAUTION:  Ensure all cameras are clean and free of obstructions before each drive and before using the features described in this topic (see Cleaning a Camera equipped),  as well as environmental conditions such as rain and faded lane markings, can affect performance.
If a camera is obstructed or blinded, Model 3  displays a message on the touchscreen  and Self-Driving  features purposes only and is not a substitute for attentive causing either unnecessary, invalid, inaccurate, or designed to prevent all collisions.
In certain situations, it can minimize the impact of a collision by attempting to reduce your driving speed.
Depending on Automatic Emergency Braking to avoid a collision can result in designed to prevent a collision.In certain situations, it can minimize the impact of a collision..
Depending on Obstacle-Aware Acceleration to avoid a collision can Model 3  monitors the area in front of it for the presence of an object such as a vehicle, motorcycle, bicycle, or pedestrian.
If a collision is considered likely unless you take immediate sound a chime and highlight the vehicle in front of you in red on the touchscreen .
If this happens, TAKE IMMEDIATE risk of a collision has been reduced (for example, you have decelerated or stopped Model 3 , or the object in front of your If immediate action is not taken when Model 3  issues a enabled) may automatically apply the brakes if a collision is considered imminent (see Automatic Emergency Braking  on off or adjust sensitivity, touch Controls  > Self-Driving  and adversely affected by road and weather conditions.
to provide visual and audible alerts.It does not attempt responsibility to take immediate corrective action.. may not exist..
Stay alert and always pay attention to the area in front of Model 3  so you can anticipate whether any action is required.
Collision Avoidance Assist another active safety feature is triggered (such as Automatic Emergency Braking), however, Model 3  may pressing the brake pedal.
In this case, the touchscreen Model 3  is designed to determine the distance from detected objects.
When a collision is considered unavoidable, Automatic Emergency Braking is designed to apply the brakes to reduce the vehicle's speed and therefore, the severity of the impact.
The amount of speed that is reduced depends on many factors, including driving speed and When Automatic Emergency Braking applies the brakes, the You may also notice abrupt downward movement of the brake pedal.
The brake lights turn on to alert other road users that Automatic Emergency Braking operates only when driving Automatic Emergency Braking does not apply the brakes, or • You press and release the brake pedal while Automatic • You accelerate hard while Automatic Emergency Braking • The vehicle, motorcycle, bicycle, or pedestrian is no longer detected in the front or rear of the vehicle.
Automatic Emergency Braking is always enabled when you start Model 3 .
To disable for your current drive, shift into Park, touch Controls  > Self-Driving , then touch Automatic Emergency Braking, your vehicle may still apply the brakes after detecting an initial collision to reduce further impact disable Automatic Emergency Braking.
If you disable it, Model 3  does not automatically apply the brakes in situations where a collision is considered likely.
the impact of frontal and reverse collisions with limited In the event Automatic Emergency Braking is unavailable, the to reduce the severity of an impact.
It is not designed braking or inappropriate or untimely braking, such as when a vehicle is partially in the path of travel or there is road debris.
It is the driver’s responsibility to drive safely and remain in control of the vehicle at all times.substitute for maintaining a safe traveling distance during automatic braking events..
Always ensure that the brake pedal can move freely.
Do not place material under or on top of the driver’s floor mat (including an additional mat) and always ensure that the driver’s floor mat is properly secured.
Failure to do so can impede In addition to Automatic Emergency Braking, Model 3  may apply the brakes to help prevent or mitigate a subsequent impact after an initial collision if airbag or seat belt pre- tensioner deployment is detected.
The brakes may be applied When Model 3  is in Reverse and the touchscreen is displaying the rear view camera feed, a vertical red bar appears when Model 3  detects that an object (such as another vehicle or a pedestrian) is about to cross behind For example, if you are backing out of a parking space and another vehicle is approaching from your left, a red bar appears on the left side of the camera view.
If there are objects approaching from both sides of Model 3 , red bars If you would like a chime to sound when Rear Cross-Traffic Alert detects an object approaching while Model 3  is reversing, touch Controls  > Safety  > Rear Cross-Traffic If Rear Cross-Traffic Chime  is enabled, a chime sounds only A chime does not sound when Model 3  is in Reverse but at a When Model 3  is reversing and cross traffic is detected, Acceleration may apply the brakes to attempt to avoid a collision.
Do not rely on Automatic Emergency Braking or Obstacle-Aware Acceleration to prevent a collision.For more to inform you if the area surrounding your vehicle is free of objects and/or people..
The cameras may not detect objects or barriers that can potentially cause damage or injury, especially objects very low to the ground.
In addition, several external factors can reduce the performance of the cameras, including a dirty or obstructed lens.Always inspect the area with your own use all mirrors..
Use the cameras for guidance purposes only.
Rear Cross-Traffic Alert is not intended to replace your own direct visual checks and is not a substitute Obstacle-Aware Acceleration is designed to reduce the impact of a collision by reducing motor torque and in some cases applying the brakes, if Model 3  detects an object in its sounds a chime when the brakes are automatically applied.
For example, Model 3 , while parked in front of a closed garage door with Drive engaged, detects that you have pressed hard on the accelerator pedal.
Although Model 3  still accelerates and hits the garage door, the reduced torque may Obstacle-Aware Acceleration is designed to operate only when all of these conditions are simultaneously met: • Drive or Reverse is engaged.• Model 3  is stopped or traveling less than 10 mph (16 • Model 3  detects an object in its immediate driving path.
To disable Obstacle-Aware Acceleration, touch Controls  > Self-Driving  and then touch Obstacle-Aware Acceleration .to reduce the severity of an impact..
It is not designed torque in all situations, such as performing a sharp turn environmental conditions, distance from an obstacle, and a driver's actions, can limit, delay, or inhibit Acceleration to control acceleration or to avoid, or limit, the severity of a collision, and do not attempt to test Obstacle-Aware Acceleration.
Doing so can result inappropriate or untimely reduction in motor torque.
It is the driver's responsibility to drive safely and remain Collision Avoidance features cannot always detect all objects, vehicles, bikes, or pedestrians, and you may experience unnecessary, inaccurate, invalid, or missed • Bright light (such as from oncoming headlights or direct • A camera or sensor is obstructed (dirty, covered, fogged dirty, or obstructed (such as by mud, ice, or snow, or by a vehicle bra, excessive paint, or adhesive products such as • Weather conditions (heavy rain, snow, fog, or extremely hot or cold temperatures) are interfering with sensor equipment or devices that generate ultrasonic waves.
CAUTION:  If a fault occurs with a Collision Avoidance Assist feature, Model 3  displays an alert.Contact Tesla CAUTION:  Driver assistance features are automatically disabled when Track Mode is On..
It is the driver’s responsibility to drive safely and be in control of the represent an exhaustive list of situations that may interfere with proper operation of Collision Avoidance Assist features.
These features may fail to provide their intended function for many other reasons.
It is the driver’s responsibility to avoid collisions by staying alert, paying attention, and taking corrective action as Model 3  displays a speed limit on the touchscreen  and you can choose if and how you are warned when you exceed the speed limit.
In addition, a blue outline may appear around the speed limit icon to notify that you are above the speed limit.
Instead of using the detected speed limit, you can base touch this speed limit sign to change your set cruising speed to the detected speed limit (including any offsets that you In situations where Model 3  is unable to determine a speed limit, or if Speed Assist is uncertain that an acquired speed limit is accurate, the touchscreen  may not display a speed when Model 3  slows down below the specified limit.
the appropriate speed limit or driving speed.
Always • Display  - Speed limit signs display on the touchscreen  and • Chime  - In addition to the visual display, a chime is sounded when you exceed the determined speed limit.
You can also specify how the speed limit is determined: want to be alerted only when you exceed the offset speed limit by a specified amount.
For example, you can increase warned when you exceed the speed limit by 10 mph (10 km/h) .• Absolute  - Manually specify any speed limit between 20 situations, the location of a road can be miscalculated and Speed Assist can display a speed for a directly adjacent road that may have a different speed limit.
For example, Speed Assist can assume Model 3  is on a controlled-access highway when it is actually on a nearby surface street, and Speed Assist may not be fully functional or may provide • Visibility is poor and speed limit signs are not clearly • Bright light (such as from oncoming headlights or direct • Model 3  is being driven very close to a vehicle in front of it • The speed limits stored in the map database are incorrect • Model 3  is being driven in an area where GPS or map data is not available or where speed limit signs can not be • Traffic signs that do not conform to standard recognizable formats, such as digital or temporary speed signs.
exhaustive list of situations that may interfere with proper operation of Speed Assist.
Speed Assist may Your Model 3  may be equipped with a cabin camera located The cabin camera can determine driver inattentiveness and provide you with audible alerts, to remind you to keep your By default, images and video from the camera do not leave the vehicle itself and are not transmitted to anyone, including Tesla, unless you enable data sharing.
If you enable data sharing and a safety critical event occurs (such as a collision), Model 3  shares short cabin camera video clips with Tesla to help us develop future safety enhancements and continuously improve the intelligence of features that rely on the cabin camera.
Data may also be shared if diagnostics are required on cabin camera functionality.Cabin camera does not perform facial recognition or any other method of identity verification..
To protect your privacy, cabin camera data is not associated with your vehicle identification number.
To adjust your data sharing preferences touch Controls  > Software  > Data Sharing  > Allow Cabin Camera Analytics .You can change your data sharing settings at any time..
To view features currently enabled that use cabin camera, touch Remove any buildup of dirt or dust by occasionally wiping the If Model 3  does not detect an authenticated phone or key and a locked door or trunk is opened, an alarm sounds.
The headlights and turn signals also flash.
To deactivate the alarm, press any button on the mobile app or tap your key card  or key fob  against the card reader located just below the Self-Driving  camera on the driver's side door pillar .
To manually enable or disable the alarm system, touch Controls  > Safety  > Security Alarm .
When enabled, Model 3 activates its alarm one minute after you exit, the doors lock, where a locked door or trunk is opened and Model 3  does not detect a key nearby.
If you also want this siren to sound in situations where the vehicle detects motion inside the cabin, Depending on configuration, market region, and date of manufacture, your vehicle may not be equipped with this The Security Alarm  must be on to enable Tilt/Intrusion .
Tilt/Intrusion  sounds the alarm in your vehicle if Model 3 detects motion inside the cabin, or is moved or tilted (for example, with a tow truck or jack).
To enable, touch Controls The intrusion sensor automatically disables in situations where the climate control system is operating when you leave your vehicle.
To override, you can manually turn the Tilt/ Intrusion Sensor on again after choosing Keep Climate On, The tilt/intrusion sensor automatically re-enables at the start Cabin Overheat Protection  (see Cabin Overheat Protection  on locked vehicle, remember to turn off Tilt/Intrusion .
If this setting is on, any motion detected inside Model 3  activates Intrusion  setting is not available.Parental Controls Parental controls enable you to limit the capabilities of Model 3 and ensure that safety settings are enabled and cannot be When you enable Require Safety Features , Model 3  enables options purchased, and software version, your vehicle may 1.
With your vehicle in Park, touch Controls  > Safety  > 2.
Enable or configure the parental controls you want to use: ◦ Limit Speed:  Caps the speed at which Model 3  can ◦ Reduce Acceleration:  Limits the vehicle Acceleration  to ◦ Require Safety Features:  Enables various safety shifts the vehicle to Drive after the start of curfew, a notification is sent through the Tesla mobile app to all phone keys paired with the vehicle, notifying users If you want to disable parental controls:Safety & Security Settings 1.
While the vehicle is in park, touch Controls  > Safety  on the 4.
Re-enter the PIN you created when enabling parental change it, touch the Enter your Tesla Account credentials link on your vehicle touchscreen and then follow the instructions.
You cannot disable parental controls from For an added layer of security, prevent Model 3  from being entered.
To enable this setting, touch Controls  > Safety  > PIN to Drive  and follow the on-screen prompts to create a driving When enabled, in addition to entering the 4-digit driving PIN to drive, you must also use it to enter Valet mode for the first time and create the 4-digit valet PIN to enter and exit Valet mode.
In Valet mode, Model 3  can be driven without the need for the valet to enter a driving PIN.
The PIN to Drive  setting is If you forget your driving PIN, touch the link to enter your Tesla login credentials on the PIN to Drive popup, then follow unresponsive, you may be unable to enter the PIN.
In this case, first try to restart the touchscreen (see Restarting the unresponsive, you can still bypass PIN to Drive in the Tesla mobile app by touching Security & Drivers  > Clear PIN .
You are able to clear the PIN only if you are the vehicle owner.Protect the contents in your glovebox with a 4-digit PIN (not related to PIN to Drive)..
To enable, touch Controls  > Safety  > Glovebox PIN  and follow the directions on the touchscreen.When enabled, you are prompted to enter the PIN to open the glovebox..
Select the toggle to disable and then enter the If you forget your glovebox PIN, reset it by entering your Tesla login credentials, then follow the directions on the opened even when Model 3  is in Valet mode.Speed Limit Mode Speed Limit Mode allows you to limit acceleration and maximum driving speed to a chosen value between 50 and feature, you must create a 4-digit PIN that you must use to enable and disable Speed Limit Mode.
When enabled and the driving speed approaches within approximately 3 mph (5 touchscreen  displays a message, and Model 3  sends a notification to the mobile app.
You can also touch Security  > Speed Limit Mode  to enable from the Tesla mobile app.To 2.. Touch Controls  > Safety  > Speed Limit Mode  on the 5..
Enter the 4-digit PIN that you want to use to enable and Mode by entering login credentials for your Tesla account.
good judgment, driver training, and the need to closely monitor speed limits and driving conditions.
Accidents occur at any speed and it is your responsibility to drive You can clear your vehicle's browser data (like you would on a computer or smartphone) by navigating to Controls  > Service > Clear Browser Data .
This is useful for many situations, such Check the boxes on the touchscreen popup to exclude bookmarks and/or history for your convenience.Safety & Security Settings options purchased, and software version, your vehicle may not be equipped with Dashcam or the features may not operate exactly as described.
It is your sole responsibility to consult and comply with all local regulations and property surroundings while driving.
Use Dashcam to record driving incidents or other notable events, like you would for an The Dashcam icon is located in the app launcher.
You can add the Dashcam app to the bottom bar for easy access (see touching the Dashcam icon displays the Viewer (see Viewing To protect your privacy, video recordings are saved locally to a formatted USB flash drive's onboard memory.
Recordings are not sent to Tesla.Model 3  does not record videos when 1.. Format a USB flash drive..
Dashcam requires a properly formatted USB drive inserted in your vehicle's USB port to store and retrieve footage.
Vehicles manufactured beginning approximately 2020 are equipped with a pre- formatted USB flash drive in the glove box.There are two ◦ Format the flash drive with Model 3 ..
Insert the flash drive into the USB port and navigate to Controls  > ◦ Format the flash drive on a computer.See USB Drive 2..
Insert the USB flash drive into your vehicle's USB port, approximately November 1, 2021, the center console USB ports may only support charging devices.
Use the USB port inside the glove box for all other functions.3.. Enable Dashcam by touching Controls  > Safety  > Dashcam ..
Dashcam allows you to choose how and when ◦ Auto : Dashcam automatically saves a recording to the event, such as a collision or airbag deployment.
When Auto  is selected, detection can vary and is subject to automatically saves a recording of a safety-critical event (for example, amount of force, whether or not ◦ Manual : You must manually touch the Dashcam icon to save a recording of the most recent ten minutes of ◦ On Honk : When you press the horn, Dashcam saves a recording of the most recent ten minutes of footage.
4.Once enabled, the Dashcam icon indicates when footage is saved.. You can also view the status of the Dashcam 5..
When your desired footage is saved, view the clips on the ◦ Touchscreen: Ensure Model 3  is in Park and touch the ◦ Computer: Insert the USB flash drive into a computer 6.
Alternatively, you can view and share footage from the mobile app by navigating to Security  > Dashcam Viewer (View Live Camera from Mobile App  must be enabled on requires Tesla mobile app version 4.39.5 or newer.
For Android devices, requires Tesla mobile app version 4.43.5 7.To turn Dashcam off, navigate to Controls  > Safety  > Dashcam  > Off..
If set to Auto , Manual , or On Honk , Dashcam automatically enables (but may not be actively saving footage, depending on your preferences) every options purchased, and software version, your vehicle may not be equipped with Sentry Mode or the features may not operate exactly as described.
It is your sole responsibility to consult and comply with all local regulations and property When enabled, your vehicle's cameras  and sensors (if equipped)  remain powered on and ready to record suspicious activity around your vehicle when Model 3  is locked and in Park.
Think of Sentry Mode as an intelligent vehicle security system that alerts you when it detects possible threats If a threat is detected or the vehicle sensors determine there is a lot of jerky movement like when getting towed or shaken, • Displays a message on the touchscreen that indicates cameras may be recording to inform individuals outside of Sentry Mode is disabled by default.
You can use voice commands or the Tesla mobile app to easily enable or disable Sentry Mode.
To enable Sentry Mode using voice commands, say "Keep Tesla safe," "Keep my car safe," "Sentry on," or November 1, 2021, the center console USB ports may only support charging devices.
Use the USB port inside the glove Sentry Mode is not available in Low Power Mode (see Low Mode, Sentry Mode turns off and the mobile app sends you a notification.
Power consumption may increase when Sentry Model 3  from all possible security threats.Sentry activate the security alarm.. All impacts may not be situations..
While it may help deter some threats, no app when the alarm is triggered, when someone attempts to open a door or trunk, or sudden jerky motions are detected by the vehicle.
If Sentry Mode doesn't consider an event a clear threat, the vehicle records footage but doesn't trigger 1.
Sentry Mode requires a properly formatted USB drive equipped with a pre-formatted USB flash drive in the glove box.
There are two ways to format the USB drive: ◦ Insert the USB drive into the USB port and navigate to ◦ Format the USB drive on a computer.See USB Drive 2..
Insert the USB drive into the vehicle's USB port, 3.With your vehicle in Park, enable Dashcam by navigating to Controls  > Safety  > Dashcam  (Dashcam must be 4.. Touch Controls  > Sentry Mode  > On..
Once enabled, the vehicles manufactured after approximately February When enabled, Sentry Mode is idle, ready to sound the alarm and save a recording of the security event if 5.
To silence the security alarm and audio system when the alarm is triggered, navigate to Controls  > Safety  > Disable Sentry Sounds .
When enabled, Sentry Mode still sends a notification through the mobile app and saves the last 10 6.To manually enable/disable Sentry Mode until the next drive, touch the Sentry Mode icon..
Sentry Mode is Off Turn Sentry Mode Off in Controls  > Safety  > Sentry Mode to disable for more than one drive cycle.Sentry Mode When Sentry mode is enabled and a security event is detected but without a USB drive plugged into a USB port, your vehicle alerts you through the mobile app, without any In Controls  > Safety  > Sentry Mode , you can determine if you want Sentry Mode to not enable in certain locations ◦ Exclude Home : Sentry Mode does not automatically enable at the location set as Home in your Favorites ◦ Exclude Work : Sentry Mode does not automatically enable at the location set as Work in your Favorites list.
◦ Exclude Favorites : Sentry Mode does not automatically To set up your Home or Work location, touch Navigate  > Set Home/Set Work .
To set up a Favorite , touch the star when viewing an address on the map.
Manually turning Sentry Mode on or off using the touchscreen or the When Camera-Based Detection  is enabled, Sentry Mode uses the vehicle’s external cameras in addition to vehicle sensors to detect a security event while parked.
If disabled, your vehicle only saves clips to the USB drive if a physical threat is detected.
To adjust, touch Controls  > installed on a phone that has been paired as a key to When Sentry Mode is enabled, use the mobile app to remotely view the area surrounding Model 3  as seen through the exterior cameras.
To enable, touch Controls  > Safety  > Sentry Mode  > View Live Camera via Mobile App on the touchscreen to see what Sentry Mode records in real-time.
Ensure there are no occupants in the vehicle and all doors are locked.Then, on the mobile app, navigate to Safety  > Sentry Mode  > View Live Camera ..
When View Live Camera  is actively in use, Model 3 periodically flashes its exterior lights and displays a message on the touchscreen to notify others that the area surrounding the vehicle is being viewed through the View Live Camera  is limited to approximately one hour (or 15 minutes for some regions)  of cumulative usage per day.
press and hold the microphone button on the mobile app switch the live camera view to see through the interior camera on the mobile app.
See Keep Climate On, Dog, is not supported in vehicles with Self-Driving  computer 2.0 or 2.5.
Touch Controls  > Software  and look at Self- Driving  Computer  to find out which computer your Sentry defaults to Disable Sentry Sounds  to protect your recordings overwrite the older recordings.Sentry Mode November 1, 2021, the center console USB ports may only support charging devices.
To play media files or to format and view video footage, use the USB-A port in the glovebox drives may not be available on your vehicle depending on the Some features require you to use a USB drive (for example, Dashcam , Sentry Mode  and Track Mode, if equipped, ) that • Minimum storage capacity of 64 GB.
Use a USB drive with as much available storage as possible.Video footage can sustained write speed differs from peak write speed.. • USB 2.0 compatible..
If using a USB 3.0 drive, it must also • Properly formatted  (either automatically or manually  on Insert the USB drive into a front USB port that supports the ability to format, save, and view video footage  (see Interior Format USB Drive .
This automatically formats the USB drive Format USB Drive  is available only when a USB drive (with one or fewer partitions) is inserted into a front USB port.
Choosing Format USB Drive  erases any existing content on the USB drive.Before using this feature, move any content If Model 3  is unable to format the USB drive, format it using a 2..
Create a base-level folder titled TeslaCam .For Track called TeslaTrackMode .. You can use one USB drive for audio files, but you must create separate partitions or folders on the exFAT USB drive.3..
Once formatted, insert the USB drive into the glovebox the center console.Do not use a rear USB port because they can only charge devices.. It may take a few seconds 4..
Once recognized, ensure icons for Dashcam and Sentry Mode are available when you touch Controls .
Model 3  is If the footage is saved, you can view the clips on the touchscreen, in the Tesla mobile app, or on a computer.
When the USB drive runs out of storage space, video footage can no longer be saved.
To prevent the USB drive from getting full, regularly move saved videos to another device When enabled, Dashcam  and Sentry Mode  records footage in cycles.
Footage is continuously overwritten unless you save it.You must save your desired footage to view it, otherwise the footage is erased and overwritten..
See Sentry Mode  on Four videos are recorded for each saved clip, one from each When you view recordings on the vehicle touchscreen or in the mobile app, you can see information from when the video was recorded, including the vehicle gear, speed, steering CAUTION:  Dashcam recordings display details such as the vehicle’s speed, steering wheel angle, and state of Self-Driving  systems, etc.
Due to inherent differences reference and may not reflect all details of specific You can view recorded footage on the touchscreen when Model 3  is in Park.
Touch the Dashcam icon located in the The list of video clips is organized by location and timestamp.You can pause, rewind, and fast forward clips as needed..
To the list and select clips to delete.USB Drive Requirements for Recording Videos Navigate to Controls  > Safety  > Delete Dashcam Clips  to Insert the USB drive into a computer and navigate to the • RecentClips : Contains up to 60 minutes of recorded • SavedClips : Contains all recordings that are saved and • SentryClips : Contains recordings from all Sentry Mode security events.
If storage space on the USB drive becomes limited, the oldest Sentry Clips are deleted to provide space for new ones.
Once deleted, you cannot retrieve them.USB Drive Requirements for Recording Videos Climate controls are available at the bottom of the touchscreen.
By default, climate control is set to Auto , which maintains optimum comfort in all but the most severe weather conditions.
When you adjust the cabin temperature while in the Auto setting, the system automatically adjusts the heating, air conditioning, air distribution, and fan speed to maintain the cabin at Touch the displayed temperature at the bottom of the touchscreen to access the main climate controls screen, where you can adjust your climate preferences.
You can return to Auto at any time by touching Auto .Touch the power button on the main climate controls screen to toggle on or off..
For quick access to common controls, touch < or > to display the climate popup.While the cabin is warming up or cooling down, the fan speed may be reduced..
The touchscreen displays Warming Up  or Cooling Down  while getting to your preferred temperature.
to feel pain is limited because of diabetes, age, neurological injury, or some other condition, should exercise caution when using the climate control system and seat heaters.1..
Touch to turn the climate control system on or off.seats based on cabin temperature.. For one-touch access to seat heaters, you can add them to the touchscreen's bottom 4..
Touch to control the heated steering wheel , if equipped .The icon displays red twisting lines that correspond to the set level..
If set to Auto , the steering wheel is heated as needed based on cabin temperature, independent of the climate control system settings.
For one-touch access, you can add this control to the touchscreen's bottom bar (see Customizing My Touch a second time to defrost  the windshield.
Touch a third time to turn off and restore the air distribution, heating, and 6.Touch to warm up the rear windshield.. After 15 minutes, the rear window defroster automatically turns off..
The exterior side 7.Use the slider to adjust the fan speed.. When in Auto , the fan speed levels change to Low/ Medium / High .. 8.. Touch to control the flow of air inside the cabin..
Air can be drawn into Model 3  from outside or air can be recirculated 9.Touch the passenger's side seat icon to adjust seat heaters for the front passenger..
The seat operates at three levels from 3 11.
When Model 3  is in Park, touch Schedule  to set a recurring daily time when you want Model 3  to be ready to drive by preconditioning the Battery and cabin climate and/or charging during off-peak hours (see Scheduled Precondition and 12.
Touch to adjust the climate settings for the front or rear cabin.If Auto  is enabled for the rear cabin and a passenger is 13..
When in Park, these settings display to allow you to keep the climate control system operating, even when you leave Model 15.Touch to turn the air conditioning system on or off..
Turning it off reduces cooling, but saves energy.conditioning compressor as it is operating.. To minimize noise, reduce the fan speed.. 16.. Touch Auto  to turn the Auto setting on or off..
likelihood of fogging for the windshields and cameras.Operating Climate Controls touchscreen to display a popup for easy access to some of you can add these controls to My Apps.See Customizing My 1..
Touch to access the main climate controls screen.3.. Enable or disable the front or rear windshield defrosters.. When the rear defrost is enabled, the exterior side mirrors will also be heated..
Heating for the exterior side mirrors 4.Modify the cabin temperature by dragging the slider..
You can also enable temperature splitting which allows the driver and front passenger to customize their own climate temperature icon on the bottom of the touchscreen or the main climate controls screen to adjust.
Touch Split  again The Keep Climate On , Dog , and Camp  settings allow you to keep the climate control system running when in Park, even after you've left Model 3  or choose to stay inside the vehicle.
These settings are useful when it is important to maintain the cabin temperature in hot or cold weather conditions.
For example, when leaving groceries in Model 3  on hot days, you may want to use Keep Climate On to prevent spoilage.
Dog is designed to maintain a comfortable cabin temperature for your pet while you actively and frequently monitor this temperature using the mobile app (which requires both your phone and the vehicle to have cellular connectivity).
When in Dog, the touchscreen displays the current cabin temperature to inform people passing by that your pet is safe.
This setting is not intended for people, and should only be used for short periods of time while you stay in close proximity should you need to return to the vehicle in situations where the defaults to Disable Sentry Sounds  to protect your pet.
See Live Camera view is now available if Sentry Mode or Dog Mode, or both, are enabled.When Sentry Mode is on, the cameras show a live view of the vehicle's surroundings..
When Dog Mode is on, you can view the inside of the vehicle periodic snapshots of your vehicle’s cabin and live updates about cabin conditions (requires mobile app version 4.51.5 or higher and an iPhone with iOS 18+) so you can check on your pet at any time.
If both Sentry Mode and Dog Mode are enabled, switch the camera views by touching the gray circles or the interior icon that correspond to different Mode requires the mobile app version 4.15.0 or higher.
This feature is not supported in vehicles with AI computer  2.0 or 2.5.
Touch Controls  > Software  and look at AI computer  to Camp allows you to power electronics through the USB ports and low voltage  outlet in addition to maintaining the cabin temperature.
The touchscreen remains on so you can play music, browse the internet, play games in the arcade, or watch shows in Tesla Theater.You can also control media and climate settings from a paired phone..
Camp is ideal for remaining inside your vehicle, such as camping or staying with a child.While active, Sentry Mode and the vehicle alarm system are disabled.. Walk-Away Door Lock is inactive.. 1..
Make sure Model 3  is not in Low Power Mode (see Low 2.Engage Park.. The Keep Climate On , Dog , and Camp settings are available only when Model 3  is in Park.. 4..
On the climate controls screen, touch Keep Climate On , mobile app, by swiping up from the gray bar on the The climate control system attempts to maintain your climate settings until you shift out of Park or manually turn it off.
Avoid using Keep Climate On, Dog, or Camp when the Dog cannot be enabled if the cabin temperature is too hot, or if the vehicle detects an issue with the climate control system.
Ensure that the cabin temperature is at a safe and comfortable level before enabling Dog.Operating Climate Controls If Keep Climate On , Dog , or Camp  is on, the Tesla mobile app notifies you if the climate turns off for any reason.
This includes when Model 3  enters Low Power Mode (for Keep Climate On or Camp mode) or the Battery's charge level issue with the climate control system.
The Tesla mobile app also notifies you if Dog mode is active and the cabin temperature changes significantly from the level initially set temperature and their well-being.
Make sure you have sufficient cellular coverage on your phone and time to Camp.
Never rely on your vehicle to protect something However, if you use the mobile app to turn off the Cabin Overheat Protection prevents the cabin from getting too hot in scorching ambient conditions.
While not necessary to activate whenever you leave Model 3 , the climate control system can reduce and maintain the temperature of your vehicle’s cabin.
This can prevent the cabin from getting too hot after leaving it parked in the sun, making the vehicle more comfortable when you return.
Cabin Overheat Protection may take up to 15 minutes to enable once you exit the vehicle.
This feature is intended for passenger comfort and has no impact on the reliability of your vehicle's components.
To turn on, touch Controls  > Safety  > Cabin Overheat • On: The air conditioning operates when the cabin temperature if available, on the touchscreen or mobile app.
Customizing temperatures may require the most • No A/C : Only the fan operates to prevent touch surfaces • Off: Disables Cabin Overheat Protection.When you enable Exclude Home , Model 3  turns off Cabin Overheat Protection while the vehicle is at the location set as Home in your Favorites list (see Home, Work, and Favorite You can also enable Cabin Overheat Protection remotely through the mobile app by touching Climate .
Swipe up on the bottom menu and select a setting under Cabin Overheat Cabin Overheat Protection operates until 12 hours has elapsed once you exit Model 3 , or until the Battery energy drops below the threshold set for Low Power Mode (see Low Cabin Overheat Protection requires energy from the Battery, conditions, or other potential inability to maintain the selected temperature, the inside of the vehicle can Protection is enabled.
If you experience temperatures • When you use the mobile app to turn on the climate control system, it automatically turns off if two hours has passed.
To cool or heat the cabin for a longer period of time, charge the vehicle and re-enable your climate • If your vehicle is equipped with a heat pump (to determine if your vehicle has a heat pump, touch Controls  > Software > Additional Vehicle Information ), you can improve the efficiency of the cabin heating by reducing your selected This allows the heat pump system to take more heat from the Battery to efficiently heat the cabin, instead of acceleration performance.
This helps to maximize driving increasing the acceleration mode, the Battery requires time to warm up before the increased level of acceleration • Your charge port latch may freeze in extremely cold weather or icy conditions.
In cases where you cannot remove or insert the charge cable, or your vehicle is not Supercharging due to the latch being frozen in place, enable Defrost Car  in the mobile app.
This helps thaw ice on the charge port latch so the charge cable can be removed or inserted.
See Cold Weather Best Practices  on • If the climate control system is louder than you prefer, • In addition to cooling the interior, the air conditioning compressor also cools the Battery.
Therefore, in hot weather, the air conditioning compressor can turn on even if you turned it off.
This is normal because the system’s priority is to cool the Battery to ensure it stays within an optimum temperature range to support longevity and • Even when not in use, you may hear Model 3  emit a whining noise or the sound of water circulating.
These sounds are normal and occur when the internal cooling systems turn on to support various vehicle functions, such as maintaining the low voltage  battery and balancing • To ensure the climate control system operates efficiently, close all windows and ensure that the exterior grille in front of the windshield is free of ice, snow, leaves, and • In very humid conditions, it is normal for the windshield to fog slightly when you first turn on the air conditioning.
• It is normal for a small pool of water to form under Model • Model 3  is designed to automatically maximize efficiency; therefore, your air conditioning compressor and external temperature is cold and your vehicle is heating or • To reduce the temperature in the cabin in hot weather conditions, the fan may turn on to vent the cabin when the vehicle is parked.
This occurs only if Model 3  is not in Low Model 3  has a unique horizontal face-level vent that spans the width of the dashboard.
Using the touchscreen, you can pinpoint exactly where you want to direct the air flowing from this vent when heating or cooling the front cabin area.
When the face-level vent is on you can adjust the direction of the air flow from each vent.
To adjust the direction of the air flow, simply touch the radiating air waves from the corresponding vent on the touchscreen.
The air flows in a single stream when centered or splits into mirrored air streams when air is directed outward or inward from the air flow in each direction is not as strong as when all air is front of the windshield.
Keep the grill clear of obstructions, Model 3  has vents located at the back of the center console where air flows from when the setting is turned on from the touchscreen.
To direct the flow of air in the rear cabin area, adjust the vents at the rear of the center console up, down, or Model 3  has one or more air filters to prevent pollen, industrial fallout, road dust and other particles from entering To ensure that Model 3  provides you with the best ownership experience possible in harsh cold weather conditions, follow When snow and ice accumulate on your vehicle, moving parts, such as the door handles , windows, mirrors, and wipers can freeze in place.
To achieve maximum range and performance, it is helpful to warm the cabin and Battery • Touch Controls  > Schedule  (also available on both the charging and climate control screens) to set a time when you want your vehicle to be ready to drive (see Scheduled • In the mobile app, navigate to Climate  to customize the temperature at which you want to heat the cabin.
This also • In the mobile app, navigate to Climate  > Defrost Car  to melt snow, ice, and frost on the windshield,  charge port (if equipped),  windows, and mirrors.
This also warms the least 30-45 minutes before departure (see Operating depend on outside temperature and other factors.
The mobile app will notify you once your vehicle has reached If your charge port latch freezes in place and a charging cable becomes stuck in the charge port, touch Controls  > Service  > Inlet Heater .
If this does not work after several minutes, try manually releasing the charge cable.
See Manually Releasing In extremely cold weather or icy conditions, it is possible that your charge port latch may freeze in place.
In these weather conditions,  on some vehicles, you can thaw ice on the charge port latch so the charge cable can be removed and inserted.To do so, enable Defrost Car  using the mobile app..
You can also prevent the occurrence of a charge port latch freezing in place by using the Schedule  settings (see lock the charging cable in place when inserted, but it can still charge at a slow AC rate even if the latch is not engaged.Charging charging location, Model 3  pre-heats the high voltage Battery to ensure when you arrive at the charger, the temperature of the Battery is optimal and ready to charge.
This reduces the amount of time it takes to charge.See (see charging location for at least 30-45 minutes before arrival to ensure optimal Battery temperature and charging conditions..
If the drive to the charging location is less than 30-45 minutes, consider preconditioning the Battery before driving conditions for vehicles equipped with a heat pump (to determine if your vehicle has a heat pump, touch Controls  > Software  > Additional Vehicle Information ).
For example, odorless steam can come from the front of your vehicle while charging at a Supercharger in cold temperature.
This is In the mobile app, go to Climate  and select Defrost Car , which helps melt snow, ice, and frost on the windshield, In cold temperatures, the windows stop slightly below the vehicle trim when fully raised to prevent freezing and make it supply before opening a door when the vehicle has no power Use the mobile app to schedule a service appointment for Tesla to provide hydrophobic coating to the side and rear In severe winter conditions, ice buildup can make it more difficult to open door handles.
You can use the mobile app to 1.In the mobile app, touch and hold any of the four quick control buttons and follow the instructions to customize 2..
When you are next to your car, touch Unlatch Door  to pop In severe winter conditions, ice buildup within the door handle can prevent the door handle from opening.
The process for freeing a Model 3  door handle is slightly different than others to remove ice buildup.Cold Weather Best Practices pivot pins can help prevent ice buildup inside your door CAUTION:  Do not attempt to use tools or excessive force to release the door handle from ice buildup.
If your vehicle's door handles are black: Perform the following 1.Forcefully press the frontmost part of the door handle.. It 2.. Press the rearmost part of the door handle to try to open 3..
Once the door handle is able to move, open and close it a few more times to release any remaining ice buildup.
prior to entering the vehicle, and check that the door is If your vehicle's door handles are silver:  You can usually remove the ice with a few forceful bumps to the door handle using the bottom of your fist.
Perform the following to damage the paint prior to performing the procedure, and do not attempt to use tools or excessive force.1.. Forcefully press the rearmost part of the door handle to 2..
Working in a circular pattern around the perimeter of the door handle, use the bottom of your fist to forcefully 3.
Aiming for the rearmost end of the wide part of the door handle, use the bottom of your fist to forcefully bump the door handle.
Increase the intensity of the bumps as necessary, repeating steps 1 through 3 until the ice is 4.
Once the door handle is able to move, open and close it a few more times to release any remaining ice buildup.
prior to entering the vehicle, and check that the door is If ice buildup is expected when parking, turn off Auto-Fold Mirrors .Touch Controls  > Auto-Fold ..
Ice can prevent exterior preconditioning, or when the rear defroster is turned on.If you expect snow or ice to build up when parked, touch Controls  > Service  > Wiper Service Mode ..
This raises the wipers against the windshield so they can defrost when the Use winter tires to increase traction in snowy or icy conditions.
You can purchase winter tires on the Tesla Shop Tire chains provide additional traction when driving in snowy or icy conditions.
Check local regulations to determine if tire chains are recommended or required during winter months.Your vehicle’s tire pressures will drop in cold ambient temperatures..
If the TPMS indicator light appears, inflate the tires before driving.
The tires will lose one PSI for every 10° F protect tires from potholes and improve range when properly Cold weather can increase energy consumption because more power is required for driving, cabin and Battery heating.
Follow these suggestions to reduce energy consumption: • Use seat heaters to keep warm.
Seat heaters use less • Slow down your driving and avoid frequent and rapid • If your vehicle is equipped with a heat pump (to determine if your vehicle has a heat pump, touch Controls  > Software > Additional Vehicle Information ), you can improve the efficiency of the cabin heating by reducing your selected This allows the heat pump system to take more heat from the Battery to efficiently heat the cabin, instead of acceleration performance.
This helps to maximize driving increasing the acceleration mode, the Battery requires time to warm up before the increased level of acceleration Regenerative braking can be limited if the Battery is too cold.
As you continue to drive, the Battery warms up and regenerative power increases (see Regenerative Braking  on allow enough time to precondition your vehicle or if you use Schedule  to precondition Model 3  before your departure time regenerative braking power but after a short period of driving, Model 3  recalibrates to correct this.
Touch Service  > Wheel & Tire  > Tires  to select winter tires and quicken this unavailable because the Battery is cold.
This portion of unavailable energy displays in blue on the Battery charging rates may be limited.The snowflake icon no longer displays when the Battery is sufficiently warm..
Leave Model 3  plugged in when not in use.
This uses the charging system, rather than the Battery itself, to keep the When parked, use the Controls  > Schedule  settings, available on both the charging and climate control screens, to set a time when you want to precondition Model 3  (see Scheduled Schedule  to prevent the charge port latch freezing in place.
Your vehicle determines the appropriate time to begin preconditioning so that cabin and Battery are warm by your Tesla recommends that you also schedule a charge with your precondition to ensure that your vehicle has sufficient energy for the trip.
When Model 3  is not plugged in, preconditioning operates as long as Model 3  is not in Low Power Mode (see If you leave Model 3  parked for an extended period of time, plug the vehicle into a charger to prevent normal range loss and to keep the Battery at an optimal temperature.
Your vehicle is safe to stay plugged in for any length of time.When not in use, Model 3  enters a sleep mode to conserve energy..
Reduce the number of times you check your vehicle’s status on the mobile app, as this automatically wakes up your vehicle and starts normal energy consumption.Cold Weather Best Practices To ensure that Model 3  provides you with the best ownership experience possible in hot ambient conditions, follow these There are several ways to prepare your vehicle for a drive, without having to get into an already hot vehicle: • Precondition the cabin by moving the direction of air flow from the vents, and turn the seat heaters on or off.
In the • Touch Schedule , available on both the Charging and Climate Control screens, to set a time when you want your vehicle to be ready to drive (see Scheduled Precondition • Enable Cabin Overheat Protection , which prevents the cabin from getting too warm in hot ambient conditions.
You can choose whether you want the A/C or just the fan to run when the temperature in the cabin exceeds 105° F • In the mobile app, navigate to Controls  to vent the 30-45 minutes before departure (see Operating Climate outside temperature and other factors.
The mobile app will notify you once your vehicle has reached the desired Leave Model 3  plugged in when not in use, especially if using Preconditioning or Cabin Overheat Protection.
This uses the charging system, rather than the battery itself, to maintain a perishable goods.
See Keep Climate On, Dog, and Camp • Tesla recommends turning the air conditioning off approximately 30 seconds before pressing Park to reduce • Park in the shade to help reduce power consumption and • When parked, plug in Model 3  and Schedule  your charging.
Your vehicle determines the appropriate time to begin charging so it is complete during off-peak hours.The cabin and Battery are also prepared by your set departure time..
For more information, see Scheduled When using Trip Planner or navigating to a Supercharger station, your vehicle automatically prepares the Battery for most efficient charging.
In extreme heat, you may not see the message that the vehicle is preconditioning the Battery while navigating to a Supercharger, but it is still preparing the charging location for at least 30-45 minutes before arrival to ensure optimal Battery temperature and charging conditions.
If the drive to the charging location is less than 30-45 minutes, consider preconditioning the Battery before driving If possible, leave your vehicle plugged into a charger whenever not in use, even in warm weather, especially if using Preconditioning or Cabin Overheat Protection.
If you leave Model 3  parked for an extended period of time, plug the vehicle into a charger to prevent normal range loss and to keep the Battery at an optimal temperature.
Your vehicle is safe to stay plugged in for any length of time.When not in use, Model 3  enters a sleep mode to conserve energy..
Reduce the number of times you check your vehicle’s status on the mobile app, as this automatically wakes up your vehicle and starts normal energy consumption.Hot Weather Best Practices The touchscreen displays a map at all times (except when • To move the map in any direction, hold and drag a finger.
• To rotate the map in any direction, hold and turn two • To zoom the map in or out, expand or pinch two fingers, location is no longer tracked.
The message "Tracking Disabled" displays briefly next to the map orientation icon and the icon turns gray.To re-enable tracking, touch the map's orientation icon and choose North Up or Heading Up..
To change the orientation of the map, toggle between these GPS.
GPS accuracy can be affected by a number of external factors, including environmental factors (such as weather or building cover) as well as interference from other devices (such third-party dashcam devices, or other GPS devices When Model 3  is in Park, the following icons display on the map to allow you to customize the type of information the map displays.
To access these icons when driving, touch Drop a pin anywhere on the map by pressing and holding your finger on a desired location.
When you drop a pin, or touch an existing pin, the chosen location is centered on the map and a popup screen provides information about the location.
From this popup, you can navigate to the location, add or remove the location from your list of favorite destinations, or set it as Home or Work (see Home, Work, and on region and vehicle configuration.Maps and Navigation Touch the navigation settings icon to customize the navigation system to suit your preferences (the available settings vary depending on your market region and vehicle • Navigation Guidance : Touch Voice  to enable an audible • Touch - or + to increase or decrease the volume of spoken navigation instructions.
Decreasing all the way to the left or touching the speaker icon mutes the instructions.You can also mute/unmute navigation instructions by touching the speaker icon..
This volume setting applies only to the navigation system's spoken instructions.
Volume for • Enable Automatic Navigation  if you want Model 3  to automatically initiate a navigation destination when you get in your vehicle.
Destinations are predicted based on commonly driven routes, time of day, and calendar entries add Supercharger stops as needed.
Supercharging stops are added to navigation routes with the goal of minimizing the amount of time you spend driving and charging (see • Enable Online Routing  to automatically route to avoid heavy traffic and to get real-time traffic conditions along navigation routes, if available in your region (see Online • Touch Avoid Ferries  to be automatically routed to avoid • Touch Avoid Tolls  to be automatically routed to avoid tolls, • To display a route that does not include highways, enable • Change Use HOV Lanes  between Off, On, and Auto .
When set to On, Model 3  includes High Occupancy Vehicle Model 3  uses the cabin camera (see Cabin Camera  on vehicle and uses that information (along with the time, location, and road restrictions) to determine whether or To navigate to a location, touch the search bar in the corner of the map and enter a destination, send the destination from your phone, or use voice commands (see Voice Commands destination you choose has other destinations within it (such as terminals at an airport), you can also choose a sub- • Refresh a search when you zoom in or drag to a different • Choose a saved Home  or Work  location (see Home, Work, • Select a Charging  destination (see Charging Locations  on • Pick from Recent  destination (the most recent destination • Choose a destination you have marked as a Favorite  (see • A popular restaurant when you're feeling Hungry  or a popular destination (such as museums and amusement • Touching Controls  > Search  on your vehicle's touchscreen • Using the "share" functionality from your iOS® or Android device after allowing access to the Tesla mobile app.
• Touching one of the recent destinations in the list below Android™ device using the "share" functionality on your device after allowing access to the Tesla mobile app.
When you specify a location, the touchscreen zooms out to provide an overview of the route you need to travel and displays a turn-by-turn direction list.
Estimated arrival time, driving time,  mid-point stops and destination weather conditions,  and mileage displays at the bottom of the • After entering a destination, you can choose from Faster • The Battery icon on the turn list provides a visual representation showing an estimate of how much energy will remain when you reach your destination, and how much will remain if you make a round trip back to your • If charging is needed to reach your destination and Trip the navigation route automatically includes Supercharger • If you won't have enough energy to reach your destination and there is no Supercharger on the route, an alert tells you that charging is needed to reach your destination.
• Each turn is preceded by the distance to the maneuver.
• To see the bottom of the list, you may need to drag the list After setting a destination, the search bar gives you the option to Search Along Route  to add stops (see Adding Stops While navigating, the map tracks your location and displays the current leg of your trip.
You can display the entire route at any time by swiping down to expand the turn-by-turn direction list or touching the route overview icon.
Below the turn-by-turn list, a progress bar shows how close you are to your destination or next stop.
If online routing is enabled, the progress bar also shows live traffic conditions To stop navigating, touch Cancel , located in the bottom corner of the turn-by-turn direction list.
Swipe right on the suggested location or press and hold the location to quickly allow you to navigate to any destination, but you must enter Depending on market region and vehicle configuration, this feature may not be available on your vehicle.
Your vehicle After you have entered a destination with one stop, the map displays up to three alternate routes.
This allows you to easily compare total travel time and traffic information for each route.
If you do not select a preferred route within the timeout period, the fastest route is automatically selected.Adding Stops to a Route After entering a destination, edit your route by adding, deleting or reordering stops.
Touch the three dots at the bottom of the turn-by-turn direction list to view options to You can also use the Tesla mobile app to edit your route (if available in your region).
In the Tesla mobile app, go to Locations  > Navigate  and enter a destination, touch Edit Trip > Add Stop  to edit your route, then touch Send to Car  to Automatic Navigation  can predict a destination when you get in your vehicle.
When your phone's calendar is synced to Model 3 , and the calendar includes an event that takes place within two hours of when you get in your vehicle to drive, Automatic Navigation  suggests the location of the event In addition, if you are Home and drive on weekdays (Monday to Friday) from 5:00 AM to 11:00 AM, Automatic Navigation can automatically route you to your specified Work location Likewise, if you are at work on weekdays from 3:00 PM to 11:00 PM, Automatic Navigation  can automatically route you To enable Automatic Navigation , touch Controls  > Navigation and then select Automatic Navigation .
You must have your phone's calendar synced to Model 3  and the event must include a uniquely specified and valid address (see Phone, send to Model 3 , override routes suggested by Automatic In addition to navigating to a destination of your choice, Model 3  can also suggest nearby locations based on whether you are feeling Hungry  or Lucky .
In the navigation search bar, touch Hungry  or Lucky .
Hungry  suggests a list of popular restaurants, whereas Lucky  suggests a list of popular you discover an interesting destination, touch Navigate  to This feature requires the latest version of Navigation maps.
To download, connect Model 3  to Wi-Fi and touch Controls  > Software  to check if an update is available (see Map Updates When you add a destination as a Favorite, you can easily navigate to it by touching the navigation search bar and then touching Favorites  and choosing it from your list of favorite To delete a Recent or Favorite destination, touch and hold it on the destination list and then touch the X that appears.
You can also reorder the list of Favorite destinations by touching and dragging a destination.Once you have finished making 3..
Enter an address and touch Save as Home  or Save as You can also drop a pin to use as Home or Work.For more 148..
Once you have set Home and Work, simply touch these shortcuts whenever you want to navigate home or to work.
To change your Home or Work location, touch and hold the Home or Work icon.Once a Home or Work location is saved, Model 3  may prompt you to navigate to your Work location in the mornings and to your Home location in the evenings and provide an estimated driving time based on current traffic conditions.
See Clear Work  to remove associated addresses entirely.
Based on your usage patterns, Model 3  may prompt you to save a For security reasons, if you sell , transfer ownership, or allow others to drive Model 3 , it is recommended that you delete your Home and Work locations.
You can delete these individually or you can perform a factory reset to erase all To display charging locations on the map, touch the map's search bar, then touch Charging .
Charging locations are shown in a list (with the closest charging location at the top of the list) and represented by corresponding pins on the map.
Touch a pin to display more information, navigate to, or To show charging stations that are not owned and operated by Tesla on the charger list and map, touch Controls  > Navigation  > Third-Party Charging Stations .
This option is disabled by default.
Trip Planner will not automatically navigate to third-party charging stations, but you can add Your vehicle preconditions its high voltage Battery when navigating to Supercharger.
This ensures you arrive with an optimal Battery temperature, reducing the amount of time it takes to charge.
To precondition the Battery for a third-party fast charger, search for the fast charger in your vehicle's navigation and select it to enter it as the destination.
Your vehicle automatically recognizes the selected destination as a fast charger and preconditions its Battery accordingly.
Touch the lightning bolt icons to specify the types of charging locations you want the map to include (by default, also included as dark gray pins when you choose to display The appearance of a charging location's pin reveals the predicted status about the location.
Touch the pin to display Touch a charging location's pin to display a popup from which • Determine its exact location and approximate distance • Determine if a Supercharger location is trailer friendly.
A Supercharger stalls that allow you to pull through and charge while a trailer is attached to your vehicle.
displays trailer-friendly Supercharger locations at the top • View a list of amenities within walking distance.• On a Supercharger popup, touch an amenity icon to restrooms, restaurants, lodging, shopping, and Wi-Fi.
• Touch the arrow icon to navigate to the charging location.fast charger in some regions), Model 3  preconditions the Battery to prepare for charging..
In some circumstances components to make noise as they generates heat to • View how busy a Supercharger location typically is during different times of the day, along with corresponding 168).
On select Supercharger locations, you can tap Show Site Map  to see a 3D view of the site layout and When navigating to a destination, Model 3  helps you anticipate your charging needs by calculating the amount of energy that remains when you reach your destination.
When navigating, the map displays this calculation next to the Battery icon on the turn-by-turn direction list (see Navigating direction list is compressed, touch the top of the list to The calculation that predicts how much energy you will use is and environmental factors (wind speed and direction, ambient and forecasted temperatures, air density and humidity, etc.).
As you drive, Model 3  continuously learns how much energy it uses, improving accuracy over time.Model 3  predicts energy usage based on the driving style of the individual vehicle..
For example, if you drive aggressively for a period of time, future range predictions will assume higher consumption.
Some factors that contribute to predicted energy (such as forecasted temperatures and wind speed) are available only when Model 3  has internet recommended that you perform a factory reset ( Controls  > Service  > Factory Reset ) to ensure the predicted energy is as Throughout your route, Model 3  monitors energy usage and updates the estimate of energy remaining at the end of your energy remaining to reach your destination, requiring you to drive slowly to conserve energy.
For tips on conserving To determine if you have enough energy for a round trip, touch the Battery icon on the turn-by-turn direction list to display an estimated calculation of your round trip energy usage.
Or, when navigating to a destination, use Set Arrival % automatically adjusts the estimated driving and arrival times.
In situations where traffic conditions may delay your estimated time of arrival and an alternate route is available, the navigation system can reroute you to your destination.
To decline the alternate route, tap the reroute notification on your touchscreen.You can also specify the minimum number of minutes that must be saved before you are rerouted..
Turn this feature on or off by touching Controls  > Navigation  > If available in your region and Online Routing  is enabled, real- time traffic condition icons display along navigation routes road trips with confidence.
If reaching your destination requires charging, Trip Planner routes you through the appropriate Supercharger locations.
Trip Planner selects a route and provides charging times to minimize the amount of time you spend driving and charging.
To enable Trip Planner, touch the map's settings icon (see Navigation Settings  on When Trip Planner is enabled and charging is required to reach your destination, the turn-by-turn direction list includes Supercharger stops, recommended charging times at each Supercharger, and an estimate of how much energy will be available when you arrive at the Supercharger To remove Supercharger stops and display directions only, touch Remove all charging stops  at the bottom of the turn- by-turn direction list.
If you remove charging stops, the turn- by-turn direction list may display an alert indicating that charging is needed to reach your destination.
To add Supercharger stops back to the turn-by-turn direction list, While charging at a Supercharger, the charging screen displays the remaining charging time needed to drive to your next Supercharger stop or destination (if no further charging is needed).
If you charge for a shorter or longer length of time, charging time at subsequent Supercharger stops is adjusted accordingly.
You can also use the mobile app to regions, a third-party fast charger using Trip Planner, Model 3 may allocate some energy to pre-heat the Battery to arrive at the Supercharger or third-party fast charger with an optimal Battery temperature.
This reduces charging time (see If Trip Planner estimates that you won't have enough energy for your round trip, and there are no Superchargers available on your route, Trip Planner displays an alert at the top of the turn-by-turn direction list notifying you that charging is experiences an outage, Trip Planner displays a notification and attempts to reroute you to a different Supercharger As updated maps become available, they are automatically sent to Model 3  over Wi-Fi.
To ensure you receive them, periodically connect Model 3  to a Wi-Fi network (see Wi-Fi you when new maps are installed.Maps and Navigation configuration, options purchased, and software version.
Some apps described may not be available in your market The Media Player displays on the touchscreen and is used to play various types of media.
You can drag Media Player to minimize it so that just the Miniplayer displays.
The convenient Miniplayer, which occupies the least amount of space on the touchscreen, displays what's currently playing and provides only the basic functions associated with what's When you play audio through the web browser and then minimize the browser, Model 3  continues the browser audio in the background.
You can pause or play the browser audio through the media Miniplayer.
If there was media playing before the browser audio began, the media resumes after you Streaming services are available only when a data connection some media services, you can use a default Tesla account.
For others, you may need to enter account credentials the first time you use it.If you pair a phone key with your vehicle, you can instead authenticate from the paired phone ..
change the source from within the Media Player screen by Model 3  supports these media apps, if available in your When listening to internet radio or a music streaming service, the options available on the Media Player screen vary depending on what you are listening to.
Touch the next (or previous) available station, episode, or track.
You can also play next/previous using the left scroll button on the steering and preferences, such as volume control, playing certain songs, or switching the media source (see Voice Commands • Roll the scroll button on the left side of the steering wheel up or down to increase or decrease volume respectively.
This adjusts the volume for media, voice commands, and • Volume may be adjusted based on your driving speed and • Touch the <> arrows associated with the speaker icon on • To pause media, press the left scroll button.
Press again • Pressing the left scroll button during a phone call mutes region.
Also, a setting may not be applicable to all audio • Tone : Drag the sliders to adjust the subwoofer and any of the five frequency bands (Bass, Bass/Mid, Mid, Mid/ Treble, and Treble).
Or, touch the dropdown list to select a preset.To create a preset, adjust the tone settings as desired and then touch Add To New Preset ..
To delete a custom preset, select it from the dropdown and then • Immersive Sound : If equipped with premium audio, you can adjust the level of sound immersion to make your music experience more engaging by dragging the slider according to your preferences.
Or, select Auto  for immersion to adapt automatically based on the media that • Balance : Drag the center circle to the location in Model 3 • Options : Set preferences for optional features.
For example, you can turn DJ Commentary , Explicit Content • Sources : Displays all available media sources and allows you to choose whether you want to show or hide each source.
You may want to hide media sources that you appear on the drop down list in Media Player, nor will it appear in the app tray when you touch the App Launcher.
You can re-display a hidden media source at any time by region, Caraoke may not be available on your vehicle.
Navigate to Media Player and select the drop down menu to change the media source to Caraoke.Or add Caraoke as an app in the app launcher..
You can browse through various songs and select the song you want to sing.Touch the microphone icon to enable or disable the song's main vocals.. instrumentals and background vocals..
Touch the lyrics icon United States only: For a complete karaoke studio, microphones are available for purchase online at http:// You must always pay attention to the road and traffic connection.You can now talk to Grok, an intelligent assistant built by xAI.
You can choose Grok's voice and personality, from Storyteller to Unhinged.From the App Launcher, touch Grok  or long press the right scroll button on your Steering Wheel  after related commands..
Existing voice commands for your vehicle For most source content, recents and favorites display at the Insert a flash drive into a front USB port (see USB Ports  on the desired folder.
To play media from a USB connection, Model 3  recognizes flash drives only.To play media from the device using Bluetooth (see Bluetooth Connected console..
The USB connections at the rear of the console are November 1, 2021, the center console USB ports may only support charging devices.
Use the USB port inside the glove Pair your Bluetooth-capable device to Model 3  (see Media Player's Phone  source, touch the name of your Bluetooth-connected device, then touch CONNECT .Media only if Model 3  is connected to WiFi, or is equipped with premium connectivity and a cellular signal is available.
continues to play.If you dismiss streaming on the touchscreen, the rear touchscreen continues streaming with Arcade : Want to game?.
You may need to use the steering wheel  buttons or a Bluetooth or USB controller to can only be used to charge devices.On these vehicles, you must use the USB port inside the glove box.. driving..
Using these features while driving is illegal and very dangerous.Your vehicle's toybox includes features that can be fun to use..
Here's an example of the types of features you can find in Emissions Fun can come in surprising ways.Select your preferred fart style and target seat..
Use your turn signal or press the left scroll wheel when you’re ready to “release” your prank.Better yet, turn the seats into to broadcast externally when your vehicle is parked..
But wait-- the fun doesn't stop there!
Use the mobile app to conduct remote emissions testing by touching and holding any of the four quick control buttons Light Show Park outside, turn the volume up, roll down your windows, then enjoy the show.
You can customize the song to surprise your loved ones and, using the vehicle touchscreen or mobile app, schedule the light other road users.
Before activating, it is the driver’s responsibility to ensure the use of light show complies Mars The map shows your Model 3  as a rover on the Martian landscape, and the About Y our Tesla  box displays yourself a makeover with fun filters, stickers, and emojis.
Share your stylish photos with friends and family PortWhen Model 3  is locked and charging, press the button on the mobile connector ten times in quick Rainbow Road Need more cowbell?
When some Self-Driving  features are enabled, from the touchscreen turn on Always Rainbows  by going to App Launcher  > Toybox  > Rainbow Road .
You can also visit Rainbow Road by moving Romance You can’t roast chestnuts by an open fire in your car, but you can still cozy up with your loved ones by this virtual fireplace.
Cue the music and get your romance on!Sketchpad Channel your inner Picasso.. Show us what you got!.
Touch Publish  to submit your artistic compositions to TRAX It's never too late to follow your dream of becoming a world-famous DJ.
With TRAX , you can turn your vehicle into your own personal music studio.While in Park, choose from an array of instruments and unique sounds to create the next hit song..
Microphone and headset are not included.Car Colorizer Change the color of your Model 3  on the touchscreen..
Touch the color swatch next to the vehicle name • Use Megaphone  to project a modulated version of your voice.
• Press the horn to play the first five seconds of any sound from a compatible USB device.Follow these steps to add up to five custom Boombox sounds: 2..
Create a folder on the USB drive called Boombox .3.. Add .wav and .mp3 audio files to the folder..
Although you can add as many files as the USB drive's capacity allows, you can only select from the first five, as listed alphabetically.
File names, of any length, can contain upper or lower case alpha used to charge devices.On these vehicles, you must use the USB port inside the glove box.. 5..
Choose a sound from the USB drive by selecting from the Boombox  dropdown menu.Theater, Arcade, and Toybox Uninstalling games is useful if you want to free up your vehicle's onboard storage.
To uninstall a game, navigate to Arcade , select the game you wish to uninstall, then touching Uninstall .
Once you uninstall a game, you must download it before you can You can pair Bluetooth Classic gaming controllers to Model 3  by following the same steps as pairing your phone (see Phone, connected, you can use the controller to play select games.
Model 3  supports up to two Bluetooth devices at a time (such as two controllers, or one phone and one controller).
For vehicles manufactured prior to approximately November 1, 2021, you can connect USB-compatible game controllers to the front USB ports in the vehicle's center console.
For vehicles manufactured after approximately November 1, 2021, you must use the glovebox USB port.Theater, Arcade, and Toybox components, cables or connectors.
High voltage cables are typically colored orange for easy identification.
Charging equipment designed specifically to charge your For information on the charging equipment available for your • A Wall Connector, which installs in your parking space, is the fastest way to charge your vehicle for daily use.
commonly used power outlets.
When using the Mobile Connector before plugging it in to the power outlet, and • Tesla also offers adapters that allow you to plug into the most commonly used public charging stations in your region.
At a public charge station, first attach the adapter to the station's charging connector and then plug in your Model 3  has one of the most sophisticated battery systems in the world.
The most important way to preserve the high voltage Battery is to LEAVE YOUR VEHICLE PLUGGED IN when you are not using it.
This is particularly important if you are not planning to drive Model 3  for several weeks.
periodically uses energy from the Battery for system tests and recharging the low voltage  battery when necessary.There is no advantage to waiting until the Battery’s level is low before charging..
In fact, the Battery performs best when components may become damaged or require replacement responsible for repair and/or transporting expenses.
Discharge-related expenses are not covered by the warranty The peak charging rate of the Battery may decrease slightly after a large number of DC Fast Charging sessions, such as those at Superchargers.
To ensure maximum driving range and Battery safety, the Battery charge rate is decreased when the Battery is too cold, the Battery’s charge is nearly full, and when the Battery conditions change with usage and age.
These changes in the condition of the Battery are driven by battery physics and may increase the total Supercharging duration by a few minutes over time.
You can minimize the amount of charge time by using Trip Planner (if available in your market region) to warm the Battery while driving to a Even when Model 3  is not being driven, its Battery discharges very slowly to power the onboard electronics.
The Battery can discharge at a rate of approximately 1% per day, touchscreen.
Situations can arise in which you must leave Model 3  unplugged for an extended period of time (for example, at an airport when traveling).
In these situations, keep the 1% in mind to ensure that you leave the Battery with a sufficient charge level.
For example, over a two week period Discharging the Battery to 0% may result in damage to discharge, Model 3  enters a low-power consumption mode when the displayed charge level drops to approximately 0%.
In this mode, the Battery stops supporting the onboard electronics and auxiliary low voltage  battery.
Once this low- power consumption mode is active, immediately plug in Model 3  to prevent a jump start and low voltage  battery or charge, the low voltage  battery may be discharged.
In this situation, try jump starting the low voltage  battery (see Jump The Battery of Model 3  naturally degrades over time and with energy use.
As the Battery degrades, the maximum driving range available to Model 3  when fully charged can gradually To extend the lifespan of your Battery, maximize energy retention, and mitigate the natural aging process, consider 1.
Charge in ways that protect the battery.Example: ◦ Charge at Level 1 or Level 2 (e.g..
wall outlets or Tesla ◦ For vehicles with a recommended daily charge limit of 80%, keep your daily charge limit at about 80.Save ◦ Charge more frequently..
Waiting until the Battery is ◦ Avoid leaving the Battery at or near 0% or 100% for ◦ When you store Model 3  for long periods of time, leave the Battery at around 50% charge and keep it plugged in if possible.
Use the charge settings to maintain the 2.Reduce energy consumption from these sources while the ◦ Infotainment system, such as gaming or video and 3..
Change the way you use vehicle features when the Model ◦ Configure Sentry Mode to turn off in safe locations, ◦ Park in the shade on hot days when using climate infotainment system to stream videos or play games.High Voltage Battery Information If you are unable to follow any tips and strategies that can extend the lifespan of your Battery, your Battery can still be covered under the terms of your warranty.
For more information, see: https://www.tesla.com/support/vehicle- For better long-term performance, avoid exposing Model 3 Model 3  has an energy-saving feature that reduces the amount of energy being consumed by the displays when Model 3  is not in use.
On newer vehicles, this feature is automated to provide an optimal level of energy saving.
However, on older vehicles, you can control the amount of energy being consumed by the displays by touching Controls > Display  > Energy Saving .
For more information on maximizing range and saving energy, see Getting Maximum As with any vehicle, if your Tesla has been exposed to flooding, extreme weather events or has otherwise been been in an accident.
See Submerged Vehicle Guidance  on only  by a trained technician.Under no circumstances should you open or tamper with the Battery..
Do not CAUTION:  If the Battery’s charge level falls to 0%, you extended period, it may not be possible to charge or use Model 3  without jump starting or replacing the low voltage  battery.
Leaving Model 3  unplugged for an extended period can also result in permanent Battery damage.
If you are unable to charge Model 3  after attempting to jump start the low voltage  battery, CAUTION:  The Battery requires no owner maintenance.
Do not remove the coolant filler cap and do not add fluid.If the touchscreen  warns you that the fluid level is CAUTION:  Do not use the Battery as a stationary power source..
Doing so voids the warranty.High Voltage Battery Information The charge port is located on the left side of Model 3 , behind a door that is part of the rear tail light assembly.
Park Model 3 to ensure that the charge cable easily reaches the charge With Model 3  in Park, press and release the button on the You can also open the charge port door using any of these • On the touchscreen, touch Controls  and touch the Charge • On the touchscreen, navigate to Controls  > Charging  > • Press the bottom of the charge port door when Model 3  is • Use voice commands to open the charge port door (see commands to close the charge port door, and begin or purposes only.
Depending on market region and date of manufacture, your charge port may be slightly different.door..
If you do not insert a charge cable into the charge port within a few minutes after opening the charge port door, the charge port door closes.
If this happens, use the touchscreen possible that your charge port latch may freeze in place.
Some vehicles are equipped with a charge port inlet heater that turns on when you turn on the rear defrost in cold weather conditions.
You can also thaw ice on the charge port latch by enabling preconditioning using the mobile app.
To prevent this from occurring, use the Schedule  settings (also available on both the charging and climate control screens), to set a time when you want your vehicle to be ready to drive CAUTION:  Do not try to force the charge port door If desired, use the touchscreen to change the charge limit To charge at a public charging station, plug the appropriate adapter into the vehicle's charging port, and then connect the station's charging connector to the adapter.
The most provided.
Depending on the charging equipment you are using, you may need to start and stop charging using a If you are using the Mobile Connector, plug into the power Align the connector to the charge port and insert fully.
When the connector is properly inserted, charging begins • Engages a latch that holds the connector in place; • Heats or cools the Battery, if needed.
If the Battery requires heating or cooling, you may notice a delay before charging, it draws energy from the charging equipment instead of using energy stored in the Battery.
For example, if you are sitting in Model 3  and using the touchscreen while parked and plugged in, Model 3  draws energy from the In some cases when Model 3  is plugged in but using very little energy, however, it may draw it directly from the Battery.
For example, if you leave Model 3  plugged in for several days without using it, it may gradually draw a small amount of energy directly from the Battery to support vehicle systems.
Once the Battery discharges enough, it starts charging to reach the limit again.Depending on when you check, the Battery may not have discharged enough yet to trigger a charge cycle..
As a result, it may be slightly under the charge limit even after being plugged in for a long period.This is normal, and Model 3  will start charging again once it has discharged enough..
Alternatively, to start a new charge cycle CAUTION:  The connector end of the charge cable can After you insert a charge cable into Model 3 , wait a few seconds and confirm that the charge port light begins blinking green and that your vehicle is charging.
If the light is amber or red, troubleshoot the issue before you leave to Model 3  is ready to charge and the connector is not inserted, or the charge port latch is unlocked and the the charge port remains unlocked whenever the vehicle is not charging and in a cold ambient temperature below 41° • BLUE:  The charger is connected, but Model 3  is not • BLINKING BLUE:  Model 3  is communicating with the charger, but has not started charging yet (such as when • BLINKING GREEN:  Charging is in progress.
As Model 3 approaches a full charge, the frequency of the blinking • SOLID AMBER:  The connector is not fully plugged in.Realign the connector to the charge port and insert fully..
• BLINKING AMBER:  Model 3  is charging at a reduced • RED:  A fault is detected and charging has stopped.Check Charging status displays at the top of the car status screen 1..
Time remaining:  The estimated time remaining to charge to charge with low power when charging is displayed as complete.This is expected operation..
Because the added energy beyond this point is low, it is usually not beneficial 3.Charging rate:  The maximum current available from the 4.. Range gained:  Estimated increase in driving distance 5..
Driving distance:  Displays the total estimated driving 6.Charge status:  Charge status messages (such as pulses green, and the touchscreen  displays real-time charging status..
The frequency at which the green charge port light pulses slows down as the charge level approaches full.
When charging is complete, the light stops pulsing and is If the charge port light turns red while charging, a fault is detected.Check the touchscreen for an alert describing the fault..
A fault can occur due to something as common as a power outage.
If a power outage occurs, charging resumes certain conditions for vehicles with heat pumps (to determine if your vehicle has a heat pump, touch Controls  > Software  > Additional Vehicle Information ).
For example, odorless water vapor can come from the front of your vehicle while charging at a Supercharger in cold temperature.
This is normal and not Particularly at high currents, the refrigerant compressor and fan operate as needed to keep the Battery cool.Charging Instructions by charging.
However, in some circumstances (for example, charging at high currents during a particularly warm day), the air coming from the vents may not be as cool as expected and a message displays on the touchscreen .
This is normal and ensures that the Battery stays within an optimum temperature range while charging to support longevity and example, a pressure washer) towards the charge port while charging.
Doing so can result in serious injury or Stop charging at any time by disconnecting the charge cable cable, the charge cable latch remains locked and Model 3 must be unlocked or able to recognize your key before you charge port remains unlocked whenever the vehicle is not charging and in a cold ambient temperature below 41° F (5° 1.
Press and hold the button on the connector handle to icon on the car status overview on the  touchscreen or mobile app, or by pressing and holding the rear trunk 2.
Pull the connector from the charge port.The charge port If the charge cable gets frozen stuck while plugged in due to freezing temperatures, touch Controls  > Service  > Inlet Heater ..
This heats the charge port for up to two hours to • On the touchscreen, touch the Charge Port icon (lightning • On the touchscreen, navigate to Controls  > Charging  > • Use voice commands to close the charge port door (see To disconnect the charge cable when using an adapter at a 1.
Unlock Model 3 .2.While holding the public charging handle in one hand and the adapter in the other hand, press and hold the button on the public charging handle and pull both outwards, 3..
Press and hold the button on the charging handle again to release the adapter from the public charging handle.
approximately 10 seconds of removing the connector from • On the touchscreen, touch the Charge Port icon (lightning • On the touchscreen, navigate to Controls  > Charging  > • Use voice commands to close the charge port door (see CAUTION:  Never close the charge port door manually.
CAUTION:  Tesla strongly recommends leaving Model 3 plugged in when not in use.This maintains the Battery Access charge settings by touching Controls  > Charging when Model 3  is in Park..
You can also touch the battery icon 1.Energy available:  Displays the remaining energy available in the high voltage Battery..
To show the remaining energy than a percentage, touch Controls  > Display  > Energy 2.Set limit:  Adjust the charge slider to the level of charging you want..
The setting you choose applies to immediate This indicates that a small portion of the energy stored in the battery is not available because the battery is cold.
This is normal and no reason for concern.When the battery warms up, the blue portion no longer displays..
Slide the charge limit past the daily recommended charge limit for a pop-up option to temporarily charge above the daily recommended limit for one-time only.
This is helpful for long trips and, if selected, resets back to the previous • Set Charge Limit at this location:  You can select a location- specific charge limit for your current location and Model 3 remembers the location.
Model 3  updates the Charge Limit as the location-specific limit, and adds Default Charge Limit to display your regular charge limit.
If you charge at the same location, you do not need to change • Charge current at this location:  The current automatically sets to the maximum current available from the attached charge cable, unless it was previously reduced to a lower level.
If needed, touch - or + to change the current (for example, you may want to reduce the current if you are concerned about overloading a domestic wiring circuit shared by other equipment).
It is not possible to set the charging current to a level that exceeds the maximum available from the attached charge cable.When you change the current, Model 3  remembers the location..
If you charge at the same location, you do not need to domestic outlets, your vehicle may automatically select a default charge current.
Override this default current to a higher setting by customizing Charge Current at this • Open Charge Port, Unlock Charge Port and Stop Charging: When not charging, touch Open Charge Port  or Unlock Charge Port  to open the charge port door or to unlock the charge cable from the charge port.
You can also touch the lightning icon near the charge port on the car status overview.
Use Stop Charging  when you are finished the charge port (if equipped with early generation charge port hardware) remains unlocked whenever the vehicle is • Schedule:  Displays the precondition and charging schedule for your saved home and work locations, or your current location (see Scheduled Precondition and Charge setup your vehicle with your Tesla Powerwall to charge from excess solar production, using the Tesla mobile app.
When your vehicle is plugged in at home and Charge on Solar  is enabled, your vehicle charges up to the minimum charge limit from any source and then continues charging on only excess solar power up to the maximum charge limit.
If a scheduled charge or precondition is configured, your vehicle uses any excess solar and waits until the minimum charge limit.
System requirements: Vehicle software 2023.26 or higher, Powerwall software 23.12.10 or higher and Tesla mobile app 4.22.5 or higher.
System requirements outside of North America:  Vehicle software 2023.32 or higher, Powerwall software 23.12.10 or higher • Supercharging:  Displays Supercharger usage fees, the location, the time that charging started, and a cost sites, you may be limited to a maximum charge of 80% when not using Trip Planner (if available in your market When charging at a Tesla Supercharger, information about the charging session displays at the bottom of the charging screen.
This includes the location, the time that charging started, and a cost estimate for the session.When you stop Supercharging, the estimated cost of the session displays Supercharging session..
Final pricing for Supercharging You are subject to additional fees or, at a busy Supercharger location after your vehicle has reached the congestion limit.
Superchargers are designed for fast charging and these fees encourage drivers to move their vehicles when charging is complete.
The rate structure for each site, including whether congestion or idle fees apply, can be found on the site’s Congestion fees  apply only when the Supercharger station is at capacity and the vehicle’s battery charge level is above the congestion limit or your charging session has ended.
Additional notifications are sent if congestion fees are incurred.
Fees are waived for the first five minutes, and then Log into your Tesla account to view fees and details about Supercharger sessions, set up a payment method, and make payments.
Once a payment method is saved, fees are automatically paid from your account.Charging Instructions To show charging stations that are not owned and operated by Tesla on the charger list and map, touch Controls  > Navigation  > Third-Party Charging Stations .
This option is disabled by default.Trip Planner will not automatically navigate to third-party charging stations, but you can add them to your route manually..
In some regions, your vehicle automatically preconditions the Battery when navigating to a Depending on market region, vehicle configuration, etc., all Tesla vehicles have a North American Charging Standard by Tesla that is quickly becoming more popular at third-party charging stations.
These stations feature an NACS connector While all Tesla vehicles can charge on Tesla stations (such as a Supercharger, Wall Connector, or Mobile Connector), your vehicle may not have the hardware needed to use some NACS third-party DC fast charging stations.
In other words, the connector may look compatible, but when you plug it into Model 3 , your vehicle does not charge.
This is because Model 3  needs to also support a CCS communication protocol (a commonly used charging system for some third party chargers) in order to charge at third-party DC fast stations with a CCS connector and your vehicle's hardware may need a retrofit to support CCS communication protocol.
To see if your vehicle can already communicate with CCS, navigate to Controls  > Software  > Additional Vehicle Information  > CCS and 3rd-party NACS DC Fast Charging • Enabled:  Model 3  supports the CCS communication protocol and can charge at any CCS station (adapter required) and third party NACS station.• Not enabled:  Your vehicle currently does not support the charging stations.
Use the mobile app to see if you are eligible to schedule a service appointment to enable this through a hardware retrofit.
Availability of this retrofit may • Not compatible:  Model 3  cannot support the CCS communication protocol and cannot charge at third party If the usual methods for releasing a charge cable from the charge port (using the charge handle release button, touchscreen, or mobile app) do not work, try pressing and holding down the rear trunk button on the key fob accessory 1.
Ensure that Model 3  is not actively charging by displaying the charging screen on the touchscreen.If necessary, 3..
Pull the charge port's release cable downwards to unlatch cable from the charge port.Always pull the release cable..
Failure to follow these instructions can result CAUTION:  Use the release cable only  in situations where you can not release the charge cable using the release cable or charging equipment.Charging Instructions vehicle is charging, or if any orange high voltage instructions can result in electric shock and serious injury or damage to the vehicle.
If you are uncertain as to how to safely perform this procedure, contact your • Avoid allowing the Battery to get too low (the Battery icon turns yellow when the capacity remaining in the Battery • Refer to the information on the vehicle touchscreen • After you plug in your vehicle, confirm that the charge port light begins blinking green (indicating that Model 3  is charging) before you walk away.
If Model 3  does not begin charging after a few seconds, the connector may not be fully inserted into the charge port, or there may be an issue preventing charging.
Check the touchscreen for an Model 3  is charging at a reduced current.If the charge port light is solid blue, the charger is connected but the scheduled)..
For more information, see Charge Port Light • Find fast chargers by filtering for three lightning bolts in • Navigate to fast chargers (including Superchargers and third-party fast chargers) to allow for preconditioning of • Typically, a lower state of charge results in faster charge at all times.
Do not wait until the vehicle is discharged to plug it in.
Always ensure you have more • At Superchargers, leave some space between other vehicles, as neighboring stalls may share power.Charging Instructions Schedule preconditioning and charging for Model 3 .
You can schedule preconditioning to help your vehicle charge more efficiently, or to prepare Model 3  for departure.
Controls screen, the Charging window, and the Tesla mobile Model 3  automatically saves your schedule for each location you create a schedule at.
When you select Current Location , the configured schedule can only be used when you return to including Tesla Superchargers.
Charging schedules you create are ignored when you charge at a fast charger.Create a Precondition  and Charge  schedule to specify the time and days you want Model 3  to precondition or charge.. 2..
Select the location for which you want to configure a ◦ Current Location: The current location of your car, workplace.You can't choose these options if you don't 3..
Touch Precondition  to configure the time and the frequency you want the vehicle to precondition by.4.. Touch Charge  to configure the time you want to start and schedule once..
The vehicle then disables the schedule until When you create or enable a scheduled charge, you can plug in your vehicle for a charge.
If you scheduled a precondition or charge for later in the day, Model 3  waits until that time to When your schedules overlap, the vehicle uses the largest block of time for charging, if necessary.
Example: You scheduled Model 3  to start charging at 2 AM and at 3 AM, but to stop charging at 2:30 AM and 5 AM, the vehicle combines the two charge schedules into a single block from 2 AM to 5 AM.When you specify an End by  time, but not a Start at  time, the vehicle briefly draws power when plugging in for scheduled start time to meet your charge limit.
Example: You configure an End by  time of 2 AM and the vehicle needs 2 hours to charge to meet the charge limit.
If you plug in your vehicle at 9 PM, Model 3  briefly draws power to calculate the start time If you specify a Start at  time and no End by  time, the vehicle begins charging at the specified time and continues until There are scenarios where Scheduled Charging  starts immediately.
These scenarios can occur when Model 3  is • Up to 6 hours after the start of a scheduled charge, if • When the next scheduled charge is more than 18 hours • When you haven't configured a Start at  time and there is not enough time to reach the charge limit by the End by plug in your vehicle within 6 hours after the End by  time of a scheduled charge, unless there is another scheduled charge.
You can schedule your charge to finish right at a planned departure time to reduce energy costs, even in market regions where off-peak utility rates are not applicable.
Example, if charging starts as soon as you plug in, charging may complete much sooner.
This causes the Battery to cool down to ambient temperatures and requires energy to warm it back up by your departure time.
Therefore, even if off-peak utility rates are not applicable to you, Tesla recommends that you charge until your planned departure time in order to reduce energy consumption by specifying your departure Use Precondition  to schedule a time when you want Model 3 to be ready to drive.
Model 3  automatically calculates when it needs to start preconditioning.
This ensures that the cabin climate and Battery are preconditioned by your departure Precondition  warms the Battery for improved performance and ensures a comfortable cabin climate at your set departure time.
If you don't schedule a Precondition , Model 3 only warms the Battery before charging if the Battery is too cold to charge, and doesn't prepare the cabin climate.
operates as long as Model 3  is not in Low Power Mode  (see Preconditioning can also help to increase range on your next trip because a preconditioned cabin and battery consumes less energy when you begin driving.
Preconditioning can reduce energy consumption while driving in vehicles with heat pumps, because heat in the battery can be used to warm the cabin while driving.Scheduled Precondition and Charge • Environmental conditions such as cold or hot weather and • Using climate controls to heat or cool the cabin.
• Uphill travel: Driving uphill requires more energy and depletes range at a faster rate.
However, driving downhill allows your vehicle to regain a portion of its expended energy through regenerative braking (see Regenerative • Short trips or stop-and-go traffic: It takes energy to bring the cabin and Battery to a specified temperature when starting the vehicle.
You may see a higher average consumption when the vehicle is used for very short trips • Customized settings or third-party accessories (roof or • Preconditioning the cabin or using climate controls.
• Vehicle infotainment and climate controls system.
You can maximize your driving range using the same driving habits you use to conserve fuel in a gasoline-powered • Slow down your driving and avoid frequent and rapid acceleration.
Consider using Chill Mode (touch Controls  > • If safe to do so, modulate the accelerator pedal instead of using the brake pedal when gradually slowing down.
Whenever Model 3  is moving and you are not pressing the accelerator pedal, regenerative braking slows down the vehicle and feeds surplus energy back to the Battery (see • Limit the use of resources such as heating and air conditioning.
Using seat and steering wheel  heaters (if equipped) to keep warm is more efficient than heating the cabin using climate controls.• With your vehicle plugged in, use the mobile app to precondition your vehicle to ensure the cabin is at a comfortable temperature and windows are defrosted (if needed) before your drive by touching Climate  > On and • Touch Schedule , (also available on both the charging and climate control screens) to set a time when you want your vehicle to be ready to drive (see Scheduled Precondition • Set Stopping Mode to Hold  to gain the benefit of regenerative braking at low driving speeds (see Stopping • Ensure the wheels are aligned to specification, the tires are kept at the recommended inflation pressures (see Tire • Lighten your load by removing any unnecessary cargo.
Protection can impact range.
Disable features when not • To prevent an excessive amount of energy consumption while the vehicle is idle, keep the vehicle plugged in when It is normal for estimated range to decrease slightly over the first few months before leveling off.
Over time, you may see a gradual, but natural, decrease in range at full charge – this depends on factors such as the mileage and age of the Battery.
Your Model 3  will inform you in the unlikely event a hardware issue is causing excessive Battery or range The power meter on the touchscreen  provides feedback on The driving range displayed in Model 3  is an estimate of the remaining battery energy based on EPA-rated consumption.
It may not account for your personal driving patterns or external conditions.The displayed range on the touchscreen may decrease faster than the actual distance driven..
To view estimated range based on your recent energy consumption, consumption in the United States, which deviates from tests Your vehicle continuously monitors its energy level and proximity to known charging locations.Getting Maximum Range When you are at risk of driving beyond the range of known charging locations, the touchscreen displays a message giving you the opportunity to display a list of charging locations that are within range.
When you select a charging location from the list, Model 3  provides navigation instructions and the turn-by-turn direction list displays the predicted amount of energy that will remain when you arrive through Supercharger locations to minimize the amount of time you spend charging and driving.
To enable, touch The Energy app provides a visual representation of your • Drive : Monitor the amount of energy being used while driving.
You can track the real-time energy consumption broken down by categories, compare against different baseline projections, and view range tips tailored to your drive to understand how to improve energy efficiency.
1.Choose Trip while navigating to a destination to 2.. Choose Rated  to compare the actual energy or range 3..
Choose between Current Drive  to view data from your current drive or Since Last Charged  to include data 4.
View Range Tips  to understand impacts on battery • Park : Monitors the amount of energy lost while Model 3  is parked.1.Choose between Since Last Drive  or Since Last Charge.. 2..
View how much idle energy has been consumed while your vehicle is parked and suggestions to decrease • Consumption : Compare your vehicle's actual energy consumption to Model 3 's rated consumption over the distance in the upper right side of the screen.
A longer distance stabilizes projected range and captures driving behaviors, environment, and routes.
Consumption is ◦ Y our average consumption  is an average of how much energy your vehicle uses per mile and varies based on standardized driving conditions set by the EPA.
This value is used to determine remaining battery energy on Projected range is calculated using remaining battery energy and your average consumption.
Use the Drive tab To enable Low Power Mode, touch Controls  > Charging  > Low You can also choose the percentage between 10% and 20% at which Low Power Mode is enabled automatically.
The When Low Power Mode is enabled, Model 3  conserves energy by disabling certain features when the range drops The following features will be disabled, and are unavailable to energy for standby functions, screen activity, and interactions with the mobile app.
In cold weather, available energy may drop more quickly.Getting Maximum Range The high voltage Battery in Model 3  is designed to perform well over the entire lifetime of the vehicle.
Like any rechargeable battery, however, it becomes less effective over time due to aging and usage.
The energy retention of the Battery depends on a number of factors such as age, Battery pack size and chemistry, and how you drive and charge your For an evaluation of the Battery's energy retention, touch The touchscreen displays an evaluation of your vehicle's Battery health, calculated using data from the Battery management system and comparing it to expected energy retention for the given battery type, age, and usage.
Optionally, you can run the Battery Health Test, which requires Model 3  to be connected to an AC charger for up to 24 hours.
After you run the test, the touchscreen displays a percentage that reflects the energy retention of your if there is a concern about the energy retention of the high To start the test, Model 3  needs to be plugged in to an AC In addition, make sure that all of the following requirements • There are no active alerts related to the Battery or thermal this reason, schedule Service through the mobile app.
Check the touchscreen for alerts related to the high you do not see any active alerts, there may still be a 2.Touch Controls  > Service  > Battery Health Test ..
Read the popup, then touch Start Test .The test takes up to 24 hours to run.While the test is running, the touchscreen displays a progress bar and the estimated time remaining..
The touchscreen will be off for certain portions of the test, the Battery will be discharged occupants unattended in the vehicle while the test is CAUTION:  Avoid interacting with Model 3  or the Tesla mobile app during the test.
You can cancel the test on the vehicle's touchscreen or mobile app at any time.
In the event that the test fails or you cancel the test, your vehicle will attempt to begin charging to the set charge CAUTION:  Do not unplug Model 3  while the test is running.
If you need to unplug Model 3 , first cancel the test on the touchscreen.
You can cancel the test at any Once the Battery Health Test is complete, the touchscreen displays a percentage that represents a comparison of your Battery's energy retention to when it was new, and the range estimate shown on the touchscreen  may be recalibrated.
When a data connection is available, Model 3  can determine whether the energy retention is as expected based on the vehicle's delivery date and mileage.
If the energy retention of the Battery is affecting the usability of your vehicle, schedule After the test has been completed, the Battery Health Test will be unavailable until the Battery management system detects that there has been a change in your vehicle's Battery sufficient enough to be measured by a new test.High Voltage Battery Health Tesla updates your vehicle's software over the air, constantly providing new features.
Tesla recommends you install software updates at the earliest opportunity on your vehicle.
To ensure the fastest and most reliable delivery of software updates, leave Wi-Fi turned on and connected whenever possible.
In most cases, your vehicle must be connected to There are two steps to receiving a new update: downloading convenience, you can start downloads and installations using When a software update is available for download, the download occurs automatically, showing a green arrow at the top of the touchscreen.
If the vehicle is not connected to Wi- Fi, a yellow download icon appears.
Although you can drive while the software update is being downloaded, doing so can interrupt the download if your vehicle loses the Wi-Fi connection.
When the software update is fully downloaded and ready to install, a clock icon displays at the top of the software updates, leave the Wi-Fi turned on and connected You CANNOT drive while software is being installed.
If plugged in, your vehicle will stop charging until the installation is complete.To start the installation, touch the yellow clock icon at the top of the touchscreen..
Touch Install Now  to begin the installation immediately or touch Set For This Time  to choose a different start time.
At any time before the update installs, you can touch this clock icon to reschedule.If you are driving Model 3  at the scheduled rescheduled..
You can also view, download, and install software updates by navigating to Controls  > Software .If available, connect to Wi-FI to download the update..
Software updates are not performed when certain features are active, such as Keep Climate On, Dog Mode, or Camp mode are enabled (see Keep Climate On, Dog, and Camp  on software is being installed.
Vehicle functions, including some safety systems and opening or closing the doors installation is in progress and you could damage the Tesla determines how, when, and where to send updates to vehicles based on various factors unique to each release.
In Controls  > Software , you can choose how quickly you want to receive updates that are ready for your vehicle.
Be an early adopter by selecting Advanced  (which will have additional in fewer releases) by selecting Standard .Choosing Advanced does not enroll your vehicle in Tesla's early access program..
Tesla does not update your software upon request for those wanting to receive the latest features and improvements.
Selecting Advanced  and consistently connecting to Wi-Fi If the touchscreen displays a message indicating that a software update was not successfully completed, wait for the the update.
Install a software update as soon as possible.Any harm resulting from failure to install a software update is not covered by the vehicle’s warranty..
Failure or refusal to install part of the normal diagnostic, repair, and maintenance If Model 3  is charging when the software update begins, charging stops.
Charging resumes automatically when the displayed on the touchscreen to learn about changes or new of your vehicle's software at any time, touch Controls  > may contain important safety information or operating Tesla recommends the following maintenance items and intervals, as applicable to your vehicle, to ensure continued • Brake fluid health check every 4 years (replace if • Clean and lubricate brake calipers every year or 12,500 *Heavy brake usage due to towing, mountain descents, or performance driving -- especially for vehicles in hot and humid environments -- may necessitate more frequent brake environmental conditions, etc., the above maintenance items may need to be performed more or less frequently than specified.
Additionally, the above list should not be considered comprehensive and does not include consumable parts such as windshield wipers , brake pads,  low voltage performed by non-Tesla certified technicians are not covered For more do-it-yourself maintenance procedures and information, see https://www.tesla.com/support/do-it- Scheduling a service visit through the mobile app is easy.
After touching Service , select the type of service needed and follow the directions in the mobile app.
Provide as much detail as possible to better help the Service team identify the Visit https://www.tesla.com/support/service-visits  for more • Check the Battery’s charge level, displayed on the • Check the condition and pressure of each tire (see Tire • Check that all exterior lights, horn, turn signals, and • Check for any unexpected indicator lights or vehicle • Check the operation of the brakes, including the parking typically used less frequently than those in traditional braking systems.
To avoid the accumulation of rust and corrosion, Tesla recommends frequently pressing the brake pedal to apply the mechanical brakes, which dries • Check the operation of the seat belts (see Seat Belts  on • Look for abnormal fluid deposits underneath Model 3  that might indicate a leak.
It is normal for a small pool of water • Look around the exterior of Model 3  and immediately remove any corrosive substances (such as bird droppings, tree resin, tar spots, dead insects, industrial fallout, etc.) • Check windshield washer fluid level and top up if necessary (see Topping Up Windshield Washer Fluid  on • Check that the air conditioning system is operating compressor also cools the Battery.
Therefore, in hot weather, the air conditioning compressor can turn on even if you turned it off.
This is normal because the system’s priority is to cool the Battery to ensure it stays within an optimum temperature range to support longevity and optimum performance.
Also, even when not in use, you may hear Model 3  emit a whining noise or the sound of water circulating.
These sounds are normal and occur when the internal cooling systems turn on to support various vehicle functions, such as maintaining the low voltage  battery and balancing the temperature of the high voltage Battery.
• Over time, when driving in dusty or polluted conditions, your vehicle's radiator may become clogged.This can affect air flow and heating/AC performance..
To clean, do Alternatively, use the mobile app to schedule a service • The inside of the windshield within the camera enclosure maintain clear visibility and optimal camera function.
To check if such cleaning is needed, review your vehicle's maintenance summary by touching Controls  > Service  > You can view current status of maintenance items by navigating to Controls  > Service  > Maintenance  on your maintenance items, such as windshield wiper blades and filters, were last performed and provides suggestions for when they should be performed again.
You can perform them yourself  or enlist the help of Tesla or an independent repairer.Once completed, you can reset the maintenance item on your vehicle's touchscreen..
Model 3  captures a time stamp and resets the maintenance item to remind you for next time.
Vehicle service history records persist on the vehicle, providing you and future owners with a record of previously performed services.
The service history record is not during a service visit as needed, it is the responsibility of the vehicle's owner to ensure the accuracy of the information, especially for service or maintenance performed by independent repairers or through do-it-yourself means.Fluid Replacement Intervals Battery coolant and brake fluid levels should only be checked by Tesla or a professional automotive repair shop .
Specific service information is available in the Service Manual.
• Battery coolant:  Your Battery coolant does not need to be Updating software is important to ensure proper operation and longevity of your vehicle's components.
You must install a software update at the earliest opportunity.
See Software Tesla may update or reinstall your vehicle's software as part of the normal diagnostic, repair, and maintenance process Your Model 3  has been designed and built with safety as a priority.
However, be aware of these precautions to protect yourself from the risk of injury inherent in all high-voltage • Read and follow all instructions provided on the labels that are attached to Model 3 .
These labels are there for • The high voltage system has no user-serviceable parts.Do not disassemble, remove or replace high voltage components, cables or connectors..
High voltage cables • If a collision occurs, do not touch any high voltage wiring, connectors, or components connected to the wiring.
• In the unlikely event that a fire occurs, immediately working underneath Model 3 , even if charging is not in cooling fans.
Some fans operate even when Model 3  is brake fluid, windshield washer additives, etc.) used in swallowed, or brought into contact with open wounds.
For your safety, always read and follow instructions printed on fluid containers.Maintenance Service Intervals You can replace the low voltage battery yourself on some vehicles.
See Replacing the Low Voltage Lead-Acid Battery Tire pressures display on the touchscreen in the cards area on the car status display, or by touching Controls  > Service .
The pressure of each tire displays in the visualization of your Model 3 , in addition to what time your tire pressures were last measured.
The touchscreen also displays your vehicle's determine how much to inflate your tires.
You can choose whether you want to display tire pressures using Bar or PSI by touching Controls  > Display  > Tire Pressure .
You can also Keep tires inflated to the pressures shown on the Tire and Loading Information label, even if it differs from the pressure printed on the tire itself.
The Tire and Loading Information label is located on the center door pillar and is visible when or tires, some information may be different from the labels on The Tire Pressure indicator light does not immediately turn off when you adjust tire pressure (see Checking and power on Model 3 , a fault with the TPMS is detected (see temperatures.
If the TPMS indicator light appears, inflate the tires before driving.
The tires will lose approximately one PSI tire pressures help protect tires from potholes and improve of tire failures and can cause a tire to overheat, resulting in severe tire cracking, tread separation, or blowout, resulting in unexpected loss of vehicle control and increased risk of injury.
Under-inflation also pressure gauge when tires are cold.It takes only about sufficiently to affect tire pressures..
Parking the vehicle in direct sunlight or in hot weather can also affect tire increased pressures.Do not let air out of warm tires in an attempt to match recommended cold tire pressures..
Follow these steps when tires are cold and Model 3  has been 1.Refer to the Tire and Loading Information label located on the driver’s center door pillar for the target tire pressure.. 3..
Firmly press an accurate tire pressure gauge onto the 4.If required, add or remove air to reach the recommended 5.. Re-check pressure using the accurate tire gauge.. 6..
Repeat steps 3 and 4 as necessary until the tire pressure 7.Reinstall the valve cap to prevent dirt from entering.. Periodically check the valve for damage and leaks..
Regularly inspect the tread and side walls for any sign of excessively worn, or inflated to an incorrect pressure.
Check tires regularly for wear, and ensure there are no cuts, bulges or exposure of the ply/cord structure.In addition, pay attention for wear on the tire's inner performance..
Tires with a tread depth less than 4/32 in.should not be used..
Tires with a tread depth less than 5/32 Model 3  is originally fitted with tires that have wear indicators molded into the tread pattern.
When the tread has been worn surface of the tread pattern, producing the effect of a continuous band of rubber across the width of the tire.
For optimal performance and safety, Tesla recommends replacing To improve vehicle handling characteristics and minimize hydroplaning in wet conditions, put tires with the most tread Tire rotation is an essential part of tire maintenance.
It helps maintain an even treadwear pattern which enhances the tire's overall wear quality, decreases road noise and maximizes tire life.
Tesla recommends rotating the tires every 6,250 miles or greater since the last rotation, whichever comes first.
Aggressive driving can lead to accelerated tire wear and may Vehicles with staggered wheels and non-directional tires can as the front and rear tire size is different.
Left-to-right rotation can increase tread life by changing the direction of rotation for each tire and balancing shoulder wear.Unbalanced wheels affect vehicle handling and tire life..
With regular use, wheels can get out of balance and should be rebalanced to ensure even weight distribution across the tire and wheel assembly.
Consider scheduling a wheel balance if you notice a vibration through the steering wheel .Proper wheel alignment helps preserve vehicle handling, tire life, and steering components..
Schedule a wheel alignment if or if the vehicle pulls left or right while the steering wheel is held straight.
If the tires need to be serviced, such as rotated or replaced, reset the tire configuration (see Tire experience.
Wheel alignment is also recommended after installing a new set of tires on your vehicle.Punctured Tires A puncture eventually causes the tire to lose pressure, which is why it is important to check tire pressures frequently.
Permanently repair or replace punctured or damaged tires as Your tubeless tires may not leak when penetrated, provided the object remains in the tire.
If, however, you feel a sudden vibration or ride disturbance while driving, or you suspect a tire is damaged, immediately reduce your speed.
Drive slowly, while avoiding heavy braking or sharp steering and, when safe to do so, stop the vehicle.
Arrange to have Model 3 transported to a Tesla Service Center, or to a nearby tire kit available from Tesla.
This allows you to slowly drive Model not been repaired, even if the puncture has not caused If Model 3  is stationary for a long period, tires can form flat spots.
When Model 3  is driven, these flat spots cause a vibration which gradually disappears as the tires warm up and To improve the mileage you get from your tires, maintain tires at the recommended tire pressures, observe speed limits and • Contaminating tires with fluids that can cause damage.
Tires degrade over time due to the effects of ultraviolet light, extreme temperatures, high loads, and environmental conditions.
It is recommended that tires are replaced every six years, or sooner if required, even if tread depth is above When a tire set becomes worn, replace all four tires at the same time.
Choose a Tesla-approved tire which is designed specifically for your vehicle.
Most Tesla-approved tires can be identified with a "T-mark" specification on the tire's designed to work with electric drivetrains and optimize Tire Care and Maintenance performance, safety, reliability, and durability.
For more information about Tesla-approved replacement tires, refer to according to Tesla specifications.
For example, a T1 Michelin Primacy is newer than a T0 Michelin Primacy, but is not If tires need to be replaced early, for example due to a flat tire, we recommend replacing the tires in pairs unless the new tire.
When replacing tires, it is important to match the brand and model of the older tires.Always place a pair of new tires on the rear if all four tires are the same size..
Always balance the wheel and tire after replacing a tire.Consult with a professional tire retailer and installer for further guidance..
If you replace your tires or install different ones, reset the tire resets the learned tire settings and improves the driving experience on your new tires.
It may take up to 24 hours after a tire replacement or repair before the tire lubricant is completely dry and tires achieve maximum adherence to the rims.
Avoid hard accelerations during this period to avoid tire complete set of matching tires is recommended for optimum If tires other than those specified are used, ensure that the For the specification of the original wheels and tires installed If you replace a wheel, the TPMS (Tire Pressure Monitoring System) sensors need to be reset to ensure they provide tread design may result in temporarily-reduced regenerative braking power.
However, your vehicle is designed to continuously recalibrate itself, and after changing tires it will increasingly restore regenerative braking power after some moderate-torque straight-line accelerations.
For most drivers this occurs after a short period of normal driving, but drivers who normally accelerate lightly may need to use slightly harder accelerations while the recalibration is in progress.
Go to Service  > Wheel & Tire  > Tires  to select that match the original specification.
Tires that do not sidewall of your tires  (see Understanding Tire Markings Some Model 3  tires are asymmetric and must be mounted on the wheel with the correct sidewall facing outward.
The sidewall of the tire is marked with the word OUTSIDE .When new tires are installed, make sure that the tires are correctly If your Model 3  is equipped with wheel covers, you must 2..
Pull the wheel cover toward you to release the retaining 2.Firmly press the center of the cover to secure it in place, then work your way out to firmly pressing the outer perimeter of each spoke..
You may need to hold onto the opposite side of the cover until all spokes are secured.3..
Firmly press the center of the cap with your hands (do not hit the cover with your hands) to ensure it is secured.4..
As a final check, quickly pull each spoke to confirm they For Gemini wheels, press on the perimeter of the cover until it aligns with the wheel surface.
Press on the Tesla “T” in the center until the cap snaps into place.See Parts and CAUTION:  To prevent the cover from falling off, ensure If your Model 3  is equipped with lug nut covers, you must 1..
Insert the curved part of the lug nut cover tool, if equipped (located in the glovebox in some vehicles, or you can use a small allen wrench) into the hole at the base 2.
Maneuver the lug nut cover tool so that it is fully inserted 3.Twist the lug nut cover tool so that the curved part is touching the middle of the lug nut cover.4..
Firmly pull the lug nut tool away from the wheel until the 2.Push firmly on the lug nut cover until it fully snaps into secure before driving to prevent it from falling off..
If you are installing new wheels or swapping them for different ones, update your vehicle's wheel configuration by touching Controls  > Service  > Wheel & Tire  > Wheels .
This allows Model 3  to learn the new wheels and provide more accurate status updates on your vehicle.
Select a wheel from the drop down menu that matches the new wheels you plan to install on Model 3 .
Selecting new wheels in the wheel configuration also changes the wheels that appear on your approved wheels can cause serious damage.
Tesla is To see the miles driven since your last tire rotation or replacement, touch Controls  > Service  and look under Last Tire Service.
After the tires on Model 3  are rotated, replaced, or swapped, update your vehicle's tire configuration by touching Reset , or by touching Wheel & Tire  > Tires  from the same screen.
This allows your vehicle to reset the learned tire settings and improve your driving experience.
For vehicles Tire Care and Maintenance with direct TPMS, this also clears and resets the tread wear and low tread depth is detected again.
Updating the service type will add an entry to your vehicle's maintenance summary Ensure you are aware if your vehicle is equipped with winter tires.
Winter tires can be identified by a mountain and snowflake icon on the tires' sidewall.
See Winter Tires  on temporarily impact acceleration and regenerative braking levels and should only be done after tires have been rotated checked monthly when cold and inflated to the inflation pressure recommended by the vehicle manufacturer on the vehicle placard or tire inflation pressure label.
(If your vehicle has tires of a different size than the size indicated on the vehicle placard or tire inflation pressure label, you should determine the proper tire inflation pressure for those tires.) As an added safety feature, your vehicle has been equipped illuminates a low tire pressure telltale when one or more of your tires is significantly underinflated.
Accordingly, when the low tire pressure telltale illuminates, you should stop and check your tires as soon as possible, and inflate them to the proper pressure.
Driving on a significantly underinflated tire causes the tire to overheat and can lead to tire failure.
Under- inflation also reduces fuel efficiency and tire tread life, and may affect the vehicle's handling and stopping ability.
maintenance, and it is the driver's responsibility to maintain correct tire pressure, even if underinflation has not reached the level to trigger illumination of the TPMS low tire pressure malfunction indicator to indicate when the system is not operating properly.
The TPMS malfunction indicator is combined with the low tire pressure telltale.
When the system detects a malfunction, the telltale will flash for approximately one minute and then remain continuously illuminated.
This sequence will continue upon subsequent vehicle start-ups as long as the malfunction exists.
When the malfunction indicator is illuminated, the system may not be able to detect or signal low tire pressure as intended.
TPMS malfunctions may occur for a variety of reasons, including the installation of replacement or alternate tires or wheels on the vehicle that prevent the TPMS from functioning properly.
Always check the TPMS malfunction telltale after replacing one or more tires or wheels on your vehicle to ensure that the replacement or alternate tires and wheels allow the TPMS to continue to function properly.
tire sealant than the one available from Tesla, and a low tire pressure is detected, it is possible that the tire sensor has After replacing one or more wheels (but not after replacing a tire), the TPMS sensors are relearned to ensure tire pressure aftermarket tires that differ in size from those printed on the Tire and Loading Information Label  (see Vehicle determine the correct tire pressure.
Do not drive on public roads when tires are not inflated to the correct accurately determine pressures and trigger alerts.It is the driver's responsibility to maintain correct tire 180)..
Overinflated or underinflated tires can result in the mobile app to schedule a service appointment to determine if a tire sensor needs to be replaced.
If a non-Tesla Service Center repairs or replaces a tire, the tire sensor may not work until Tesla performs the setup procedure.Tire Care and Maintenance The type of tires that your vehicle is originally equipped with depends on vehicle model and market region.
It is important to understand the capabilities of your vehicle's tires and whether they are suited for summer, all-season, or winter driving.
Check the information on the sidewall of a tire for information about a tire's performance characteristics (see Summer tires and all season tires are designed for maximum dry and wet road performance but are not designed to perform well in winter conditions.
All-season tires are designed to provide adequate traction in most conditions year-round, but may not provide the same level of traction as winter tires in snowy or icy conditions.
All-season tires can be identified by “ALL SEASON" and/or "M+S” (mud and If driving in cold temperatures or on roads where snow or ice may be present, Tesla recommends using winter tires.
summer and all-season tires do not provide adequate traction.
Selecting and installing the appropriate tires for winter conditions is important to ensure the safety Use winter tires to increase traction in snowy or icy conditions.
When installing winter tires, always install a complete set of four tires at the same time.
Winter tires must be the same diameter, brand, construction and tread pattern When driving with winter tires, you may experience more road noise, shorter tread life, and less traction on dry roads.
tread design may result in temporarily-reduced regenerative braking power.
However, your vehicle is designed to recalibrate itself to restore regenerative braking power after a tire configuration by navigating to Controls  > Service  > Wheel resets the learned tire settings and improves the driving sidewall of your tires  (see Understanding Tire Markings Tire performance is reduced in low ambient temperatures, resulting in reduced grip and an increased susceptibility to applications) have reduced traction in ambient temperatures conditions.
Performance tires can temporarily harden when cold, causing you to hear rotational noise for the first few Tesla has tested and approved the following tire chains (also called snow chains) to increase traction in snowy conditions.
Tire chains should only be installed on the rear tires.
The covers, you must remove them before installing tire chains  (see Removing and Installing Wheel Covers  on When installing tire chains, follow the instructions and • Inspect the tire chains for loose fittings and damaged • Avoid heavily loading Model 3  (heavy loads can reduce • Do not drive the vehicle without the chains properly • Remove the tire chains as soon as conditions allow.
using tire chains on other sized tires can damage the suspension, body, wheels, and/or brake lines.
Damage incorrectly installing tire chains, is not covered by the CAUTION:  Do not use snow chains on the front tires.CAUTION:  Never deflate your tires to put on tire chains..
When re-inflated, the chains might fit too tightly and CAUTION:  Ensure that the tire chains cannot touch suspension components or brake lines.
If you hear the To prevent damage to the paint , immediately remove corrosive substances (grease, oil, bird droppings, tree resin, dead insects, tar spots, road salt, industrial fallout, etc.).
Do not wait until Model 3  is due for a complete wash.
If necessary, use denatured alcohol to remove tar spots and stubborn grease stains, then immediately wash the area with water and a mild, non-detergent soap to remove the alcohol.
Keep the exterior cameras free of dirt, condensation, or obstructions.
These substances can cause unclear pictures or Self-Driving  and safety features to stop working (see Follow these steps when washing the exterior of Model 3 : 1.
Before washing, flush grime and grit from the vehicle using a hose.
Flush away accumulations of mud in areas where debris easily collects (such as wheel wells and as during winter months), thoroughly rinse all traces of road salt from the underside of the vehicle, wheel wells, 2.
Hand wash Model 3  using a clean soft cloth and cold or lukewarm water and a mild, high-quality car shampoo .discoloration, especially for plastic trim pieces, exterior lights, or camera lenses..
For example, some products either.Damage or discoloration resulting 3.. After washing, rinse with clean water to prevent soap 4.. Dry thoroughly with a chamois..
If necessary, dry the brakes by going on a short drive and applying the brakes Use isopropyl alcohol wipes (such as those used to clean Clean windows and mirrors using an automotive glass cleaner.
Do not scrape or use any abrasive cleaning fluid on glass or mirrored surfaces.
Follow the directions in Cleaning To add a hydrophobic coating to your vehicle's windows, apply the coating only to the side and rear windows, not the front windshield—doing so may affect the visibility of the Self-Driving  cameras.
Follow the hydrophobic coating When taking Model 3  to a car wash, Car Wash Mode closes all windows, locks the charge port, and disables windshield wipers, Sentry Mode, walk-away door locking, and parking sensor chimes.
To enable, touch Controls  > Service  > Car Wash Mode .
Your vehicle must be stationary and not actively If using an automatic car wash, Enable Free Roll  keeps your vehicle in Neutral and activates free roll for the duration of the wash, while preventing Model 3  from applying the Parking brake if you leave the driver's seat.
To enable, press on the brake pedal and touch Enable Free Roll ; or shift into Car Wash Mode disables if the vehicle's speed exceeds 9 CAUTION:  Failure to put Model 3  in Car Wash Mode may result in damage (for example, to the charge port or windshield wipers).
Damage caused by car washes To ensure a clear picture, the camera lens must be clean and Remove any build-up of dirt or debris by spraying water onto the camera lens with a spray bottle.
Do not attempt to remove dirt or debris by wiping an exposed lens with your hands or a cloth.
This debris can damage the surface of the periodically to maintain clear visibility and optimal camera function.
To check if such cleaning is needed, review your vehicle's maintenance summary by touching Controls  > Service  > Maintenance .When needed, use the mobile app to cleaners..
Doing so can damage the surface of the lens.
equipped)  or camera lens with a sharp or abrasive Doing so can interfere with wiper friction and cause a CAUTION:  Do not use hot water, detergents, highly alkaline or caustic cleaning ingredients or solvents, unsure, check the product label or ask the staff at the car wash.
Damage caused by improper washing is not the surface of Model 3 .
Avoid aiming the water jet nozzle moving and do not concentrate the water jet on CAUTION:  Do not aim water hoses directly at windows, CAUTION:  To avoid corrosive damage that may not be covered by the warranty, rinse away any road salt from the underside of the vehicle, wheel wells, and brakes.
After cleaning the vehicle, dry the brakes by going on a short drive and applying the brakes multiple times.
CAUTION:  Avoid using tight-napped or rough cloths, CAUTION:  If washing in an automatic car wash, use touchless car washes only.
These car washes have no parts, such as brushes, that touch the surfaces of CAUTION:  If washing in an automatic car wash, make sure the vehicle is locked.
In addition, avoid using accidentally opening doors or trunks while the vehicle is being washed.
Any damage caused is not covered by CAUTION:  Ensure the wipers are off before washing Model 3  to avoid the risk of damaging the wipers.
CAUTION:  Do not use chemical based wheel cleaners or pre-wash products.These can damage the finish on charge port while Model 3  is charging..
Failure to follow these instructions can result in serious injury or Frequently inspect and clean the interior to maintain its appearance and to prevent premature wear.
If possible, immediately wipe up spills and remove marks.
For general cleaning, wipe interior surfaces using a soft cloth (such as microfiber) dampened with a mixture of warm water and mild non-detergent cleaner (test all cleaners on a concealed area before use).
To avoid streaks, dry immediately with a soft Do not scrape, or use any abrasive cleaning fluid on glass or mirrored surfaces.
This can damage the reflective surface of the mirror and the heating elements in the rear window.Do not allow any substance to enter an airbag cover..
This Ensure your hands are clean and completely dry while using the Steering Wheel .Always wipe off excess hand cream, sunscreen, and other fluids before coming in contact with the Steering Wheel ..
Avoid allowing alcohol-based hand sanitizers from touching the Steering Wheel .
If any foreign substance comes into contact with the Steering Wheel , clean mixture of warm water and mild non-detergent cleaner as Do not polish the upper surfaces of the dashboard.
Polished surfaces are reflective and could interfere with your driving improper maintenance, including the use of cleaning solutions or tools that are not recommended in this Owner's Do not use any soap or chemical cleaning solutions on interior lighting.
Common cleaning solutions and substances can degrade the lenses or components of the lighting, causing cracks and damage over time.
When you want to clean interior lighting, Tesla recommends that you use a soft cloth moistened with warm water to gently wipe away soiled areas or stains.
Interior lighting includes, but is not limited to, When you want to clean the interior with soap or a mild non- detergent cleaner, Tesla recommends that you first cover all improper maintenance, including the use of cleaning solutions or tools that are not recommended in this Owner's Your vehicle’s seats are made of a custom, sustainable, vegan leather which is softer than leather, yet far more durable and stain resistant.
Tesla recommends that you regularly clean and vacuum the interior of your vehicle to maintain performance and an as-new appearance.
You can purchase Avoid contact with harsh chemicals, including certain cosmetics.
Such substances can cause damage, degradation, For general spills and stains, wipe spills and chemical residues from interior surfaces as soon as possible.
Moisten soap and gently wipe the stain in a circular motion.Then, wipe dry using a soft, lint-free cloth.. Do not blow dry.. Anything more than soap can be too harsh..
Using other cleaning agents, disinfectants, conditioners, or protectants is For white seats: As a last resort, moisten a soft cloth (such as microfiber) with warm water and isopropyl alcohol and gently wipe the stain in a circular motion (DO NOT use this method on black seats).
Clean off any remaining isopropyl alcohol residue with a soft, damp cloth.
Aggressive or extended use of isopropyl alcohol will damage the top coat of the material, allowing stains to occur more readily and violating the based additives.
Do not spray the seat directly with any spray.Do not get water into the seat belt mechanism..
A variety of clothing, accessories, and cosmetics may contain dyes or oils which can transfer onto the seats over time.These stains are difficult to prevent and cannot always covers..
Seat covers may cause staining or damage to the seats and may inhibit the sensitivity of a seat's occupancy sensors or restrict deployment of airbags.Avoid over-wetting carpets..
For heavily soiled areas, use a Extend the belts to wipe.Do not use any type of detergent or chemical cleaning agent..
Allow the belts to dry naturally while extended, preferably away from direct sunlight.Wipe door seals with a damp cloth to remove any debris..
Excessive debris on the door seals can cause damage when contacting surrounding surfaces.
Avoid using alcohol wipes or any chemical products that can potentially deteriorate the Use a soft lint-free cloth specifically designed to clean monitors and displays.
Do not use cleaners (such as a glass sanitizer) and do not use a wet wipe or a dry statically- wipe the front touchscreen without activating buttons and changing settings, you can enable Screen Clean Mode.
Touch Controls  > Display  > Screen Clean Mode .The display darkens to make it easy to see dust and smudges..
To exit Polish, abrasive cleaners, alcohol-based gel products (such as hand sanitizer), and hard cloths can damage the finish on additives on interior components can cause damage.
hazardous and can irritate eyes and skin.
Read and observe the instructions provided by the manufacturer To preserve the cosmetic appearance of the body, you can occasionally treat the paint surfaces with an approved polish • Very mild abrasive to remove surface contamination • Filling compounds that fill scratches and reduce their • Wax to provide a protective coating between the paint Regularly inspect the exterior paint for damage.
Treat minor chips and scratches using a paint touch-up pen (available for purchase from Tesla, depending on market region).Use the touch-up pen after washing but before polishing or waxing..
Repair rock chips, fractures or scratches.Refer to https:// information on repair locations and available services..
CAUTION:  Do not use cutting pastes, color restoration compounds, or polishes containing harsh abrasives.
These can scour the surface and permanently damage CAUTION:  Do not use chrome polish or other abrasive To preserve the cosmetic appearance of the body when Model 3  is not being used, use a genuine Tesla car cover.
Car covers can be purchased online from the Tesla Shop.CAUTION:  Use only a Tesla-approved car cover when Model 3  is plugged in..
Using a non-Tesla car cover can To extend the life of your carpet and make them easier to clean, use genuine Tesla floor mats available online at http:// www.tesla.com .
Maintain floor mats by regularly cleaning them and checking that they are properly attached.
Replace pedal, ensure that the driver’s floor mat is securely fastened, and never place an additional floor mat on top of it.
Floor mats should always rest on top of the vehicle carpeting surface and not on another floor mat The only reservoir into which you can add fluid is the windshield washer fluid reservoir, which is located behind the front trunk.
When the level is low, a message displays on the 2.Clean around the filler cap before opening it to prevent 4..
While avoiding spilling, fill the reservoir until the fluid level is visible just below the filler neck.The reservoir has a 5..
Wipe up any spills immediately and wash the affected used as antifreeze in washer fluid.
Use a washer fluid with limited VOC content only if it provides adequate freeze resistance for all climates in which you drive Model 3 .vehicle, which are available to purchase from Service..
Refer to parts.tesla.com for additional guidance.
Using other substances, such as untreated water, can result in bacterial growth within the climate control system CAUTION:  Do not add formulated washer fluids that contain water repellent or bug wash.
These fluids can washer fluid with antifreeze.In cold weather, using a washer fluid without antifreeze can impair visibility and skin..
Read and observe the instructions provided Periodically clean the edge of the wiper blades and check the rubber for cracks, splits, and roughness.
If damaged, replace the blade immediately to prevent damage to the glass and Contaminants on the windshield, or on the wiper blades, can reduce the effectiveness of the wipers.
Contaminants include ice, wax spray from car washes, washer fluid with bug and/or water repellent, bird droppings, tree sap, and other organic • Clean the windshield and wiper blades using washer fluid, Inappropriate products can cause damage or smears, and • Lift the wiper arm a short distance away from the windshield, just far enough to access the wiper blade.
Do not lift a wiper arm beyond its intended position.
If the wipers remain ineffective after cleaning, replace the front windshield cameras, which may lead to degraded performance or unavailability of Self-Driving  features.
For For optimum performance, replace the wiper blades at least once a year.
Replacement blades must meet the following • The blade on the driver's side must be 26 inches (650 • Ensure the connector on the replacement blade is the same as the original blade.
Different connectors may prevent the replacement blade from connecting to the You can purchase replacement wiper blades on the Tesla the original blades.Using inappropriate blades can damage 1..
Shift into Park and turn off the wipers.Windshield Wiper Blades, Jets and Fluid 2.Touch Controls  > Service  > Wiper Service Mode  to move 3..
Lift the wiper arm a short distance away from the windshield, just far enough to access the wiper blade.position.. Do not lift a wiper arm beyond its intended 4..
Place a towel between the wiper arm and windshield to 5.Hold the wiper arm and press the locking tab while sliding 6..
Align the new wiper blade on the wiper arm and slide it toward the end of the wiper arm until it locks into place.feel a "click"), the wiper blade may come off during 7..
Turn Wiper Service Mode off to return the wipers to their If a windshield washer jet becomes blocked, use a thin strand Model 3 .Windshield washer fluid can irritate eyes and skin..
Read and observe the washer fluid manufacturer’s instructions.Windshield Wiper Blades, Jets and Fluid Follow the steps below to lift Model 3 .
Ensure that any non- Tesla repair facility is aware of these instructions, including 1.Position Model 3  centrally between the lift posts.. 2..
Position the lift arm pads under the designated body lift 3.Adjust the height and position of the lift arm pads to 4..
With assistance, raise the lift to the desired height, ensuring the lift arm pads remain in their correct 5.Engage any lift safety locks..
Follow the lift manufacturer's is connected, even if charging is not in progress.vehicle..
Doing so can cause serious damage, bodily CAUTION:  It is your responsibility to be observant of the vehicle and its surroundings.
Ensure the area is clear when lifting and lowering Model 3  and that the CAUTION:  DO NOT lift from under the Battery or side rails.Place the lift arm pads under the designated body lift points only..
The locations shown are the only approved lifting points for Model 3 .Lifting at any other incorrectly lifting Model 3  is not covered by the Use only genuine Tesla parts and accessories..
Tesla performs rigorous testing on parts to ensure their suitability, safety, and reliability.
Purchase these parts from Tesla, where they are professionally installed and where you can receive expert advice about modifications to Model 3 .
Accessories are available for purchase from Tesla stores or online at Tesla is unable to assess parts manufactured by other distributors and therefore accepts no responsibility if you use modifications, can affect the performance of Model 3 and the safety of its occupants.
Any damage caused by personal injury or damage that occurs if you use or If your Model 3  is fitted with Tesla accessory wheels or tires, loading information may be different from the labels shown on the vehicle.
Refer to the relevant following section for wheels or tires (it is fitted with the factory original wheels and tires, including Tesla genuine replacement parts), refer to the labels attached to the center door pillar for the most accurate information for your Model 3 .20" Sport Wheels information on how to remove and install Gemini wheel If your Model 3  is in a collision, contact Tesla or a Tesla- approved Body Shop to ensure that it is repaired with genuine Tesla parts.
Tesla has selected and approved body shops that meet strict requirements for training, equipment, Some repair shops and insurance companies might suggest using non-original equipment or salvaged parts to save money.
However, these parts do not meet Tesla's high standards for quality, fit and corrosion resistance.
In addition, non-original equipment and salvaged parts (and any damage or failures they might cause) are not covered by the warranty.Parts and Accessories screw may be in a slightly different location on the cabin filter Model 3 has air filters that prevent pollen, industrial fallout, road dust, and other particles from entering the cabin through the vents.
Tesla recommends replacing these filters 2.Move the front seat on the right-hand side fully rearwards 3..
Use a clip pry tool to carefully release the push clips that secure the right-hand side front footwell cover to the instrument panel.
Then, while supporting the footwell cover, disconnect the two electrical connectors and move ◦ For the light, carefully press down on the tab while ◦ For the speaker, carefully angle the vehicle-side connector so that the small tab releases from the hole in the footwell cover-side connector while releasing CAUTION:  To avoid damage, do not pull on the wires 4.
Working from top-to-bottom, use a trim tool to carefully release the right side panel from the center console.5..
Remove the T20 screw that secures the cabin filter cover module, then release the cabin filter cover and move it aside.On some vehicles, the screw is a T20/6mm hybrid fastener..
Locking tabs may also replace the screw: use your index finger and thumb to squeeze the two tabs at the bottom of the cabin filter cover.
Tilt the cover outward cover, reinstall the trim panels and contact Tesla.procedure.. HV shock can result in serious injury or 6.. Fold the upper cabin filter’s tab upward and the lower 7..
Holding the tab on the upper cabin filter, pull the upper 8.Holding the tab on the lower cabin filter, pull the lower 9..
Ensuring that the arrows on both new filters face towards the rear of the vehicle, insert the lower cabin filter into the HVAC module and lower it into place.Then, insert the 10..
Fold the tabs inward so that the cabin filter cover can be 11.Install the cabin filter cover by engaging the lower cover fastener.. Tighten the screw to 1.2 Nm/0.89 ft-lbs..
On vehicles with tabs instead of a T20 screw: maneuver the top notch of the cabin filter cover into place, then secure 12.
Reconnect the two electrical connectors to the components in the front right-hand side footwell cover, 13.
Align the right side panel with the front and rear locator slots on the center console, then apply pressure until all 14.
Reinstall the front right-hand side floor mat then move the front right-hand side seat back into place.Parts and Accessories 15.
Reset the cabin air filter maintenance interval on your This procedure is intended for vehicles in North America CAUTION:  It is your responsibility to monitor the low voltage  battery health.
Damage to the low voltage battery due to running out of range is not covered by CAUTION:  To avoid damage that is not covered by the warranty, replace your low voltage lead-acid battery with the same type of battery.
The low voltage lead- acid battery for North American vehicles is AtlasBX / lead-acid low voltage battery that is compatible with 2017 and October 2020 do not have a heat pump and should use Vehicles Manufactured Before Approximately October heat pump and should use Vehicles Manufactured After before approximately October 2021, and in the Fremont Factory before approximately December 2021, are equipped with a Lead-Acid low voltage battery.
Vehicles manufactured after these dates are equipped with a Lithium-Ion low voltage battery.
Before performing this procedure, it is your responsibility to double check and confirm whether your vehicle is equipped with a Lead-Acid or Lithium-Ion low purpose of storing or placing items.
Doing so exposes the low and high voltage connections, which can cause You can purchase a new low voltage battery, or dispose of an Perform the following procedure to replace the lead-acid low voltage battery.
Wear appropriate personal protection equipment (such as safety glasses, leather gloves when 1.Prepare the vehicle to remove the low voltage lead-acid d..
Leave a door propped open so you can get back into e.Disconnect the charge cable from the charge port.. 2.. Move the driver and front passenger seat fully forward.. 3..
Under the rear seat, press the left and right tabs to the side and lift the seat cushion up.The seat separates from the base but is still restrained by one wire harness on each 4..
Disconnect the wire harnesses and remove the seat 5.In the front trunk, remove the vehicle’s underhood apron by inserting a small, non-marring flat tool or your fingers underneath the panel..
Pull up to loosen the clips and set 7.Power off the vehicle by navigating to Controls  > Safety  > 8.. With a 10mm socket, loosen the nut that secures the low voltage lead-acid battery..
Release the terminal clamp 9.Disconnect the low voltage cable from penthouse: a.. In the rear passenger seat, remove the foam cover and set it aside.. The foam covers the low voltage cable.. b..
Release and pull down the gray lever-arm on the side c.Pull the connector upward to disconnect it from the 10.. With a 10mm socket, release the terminal cover and 12..
With a 10mm socket, loosen the nut and release the battery hold down from the top of the low voltage lead- acid battery by unhooking and sliding it back, taking care 13.
Using the battery handle, carefully remove the low voltage lead-acid battery, taking care not to touch or damage the battery, stand in front of the vehicle and use proper 14.
Inspect the new low voltage lead-acid battery to ensure it the new low voltage battery does not have a red plug, use a small trim tool transfer the red plug from the old battery CAUTION:  Dispose of the old low voltage lead-acid battery at a Tesla Service Center, or according to 1.
Carefully maneuver the new low voltage battery into 2.Install the low voltage battery hold down and use a 10mm socket to tighten the bolt that secures it to the low voltage lead-acid battery..
Torque the bolt to 6 Nm (4.4 ft- 3.In the rear passenger seat, connect the penthouse cable a.. Ensure the gray lever-arm is down, then install the b..
Secure the connector by gently tugging the gray lever- c.Replace the foam cover on top of the penthouse cable.. terminal clamp over the terminal post.. Using a 10mm terminal clamp over the connector..
Using a 10mm socket, side of the low voltage lead-acid battery.Parts and Accessories 9.Open one of the vehicle’s doors to make sure power has been correctly restored and the touchscreen turns on 10..
In the rear seat, connect the seat wire harnesses (one on 11.Press the seat cushion back into the base until it clicks 12..
Replace the underhood apron by aligning the clips into their openings in the front trunk.Press down to lock them in place.. The clips make an audible clicking sound when 13.. Close the front trunk..
If an alert to replace to low voltage 1.Prepare the vehicle to remove the low voltage lead-acid d.. Leave a door propped open so you can get back into e..
Disconnect the charge cable from the charge port.2.. Remove the vehicle’s underhood apron by inserting a small, non-marring flat tool or your fingers underneath the panel..
Pull up to loosen the clips and set the underhood 3.In the front trunk, remove the cabin intake duct and set it 4.. Power off the vehicle by navigating to Controls  > Safety  > 5..
With a 10mm socket, loosen the nut that secures the low voltage lead-acid battery.Release the terminal clamp 6..
In the front trunk, disconnect the first responder loop by sliding the red locking tab toward you, pressing the black tab, and releasing it.Set the first responder loop aside.. 7..
With a 10mm socket, release the terminal cover and voltage lead-acid battery hold down bracket or A/C 9.
With a 10mm socket, loosen the nut and release the battery hold down from the top of the low voltage lead- acid battery by unhooking and slipping it back.
If needed, tilt the battery hold down backward so it does not slip into 10.Carefully remove the low voltage lead-acid battery, taking 11..
Inspect the new low voltage lead-acid battery to make terminal side.
If the new lead-acid battery does not have a red plug, transfer the red plug from the old battery to the CAUTION:  Dispose of the old low voltage lead-acid battery at a Tesla Service Center, or according to 1.
Carefully place the new lead-acid battery in the vehicle, 2.
Install the low voltage lead-acid battery hold down and use a 10mm socket to tighten the nut that secures it to the terminal clamp over the terminal post.
Using a 10mm terminal clamp over the connector.Using a 10mm socket, 8.. Open one of the vehicle’s doors to make sure power has been correctly restored and the touchscreen turns on 10..
Replace the underhood apron by aligning the clips into their openings in the front trunk.Press down to lock them in place.. The clips make an audible clicking sound when 11.. Close the front trunk..
If an alert to replace to low voltage automated toll systems) inside Model 3 , place the transponder next to the rear view mirror .
This ensures best results and minimizes any obstruction to your driving view.
Refer to the RFID manufacturer's instructions for specific To accommodate jurisdictions that require a license plate on the front of your vehicle, Model 3  is equipped with a license plate bracket.
This bracket conforms to the shape of your vehicle's front bumper and is adhered to it using strong clean, dry vehicle during a warm day.
Cold and/or wet conditions may result in reduced performance of the 1.Get isopropyl alcohol and test it on a non-visible painted surface of your vehicle to confirm that it does not damage 2..
Clean the mounting site with isopropyl alcohol and allow 3.
Fully remove the protective tape from the adhesive at the top of the bracket and partially remove the tape from the top of the adhesive on each side.
Leave the bottom half of the tape on the sides in place and fold the unattached tape outward for easy removal after aligning the bracket 4.
While tilting the top of the license plate bracket away from align the bottom center of the license plate bracket with because you will be unable to reposition it once adhered 5.
While correctly aligned, move the top of the bracket against the bumper and apply pressure so that it is held in 6.
Remove the remaining tape from the sides of the bracket then press the entire bracket firmly against the bumper, ensuring the bracket is held in place by all adhesive areas.7..
Once the bracket is securely mounted, use the four supplied screws to attach your license plate to the You can purchase the temporary tire repair kit on the Tesla • Do not remove any foreign objects found embedded • Do not drive at high speeds or long periods of time.
vehicle immediately and safely to a tire repair shop.periods of time may cause serious damage or injury.. The tire inflation kit is a temporary repair only..
You must repair or replace a damaged tire as soon as possible.For damaged sidewall, ripped tires or tires that have come off the rim, contact Roadside Assistance.. To temporarily repair a 3..
Remove the punctured tire valve cap on the vehicle and 4.Insert the electrical plug into one of the vehicle's low voltage outlets.5.. Turn the selector switch to the tire icon and turn On..
Once the sealant has properly flowed into the tire, the gauge shows the current tire pressure.The ideal pressure is indicated on the driver's side door pillar of the vehicle..
After several minutes, ensure the gauge shows the ideal disconnect the transparent sealant tube and screw the allow the sealant to distribute within the tire.Park Model 3 and re-try steps 2-5..
If this still does not work, call Tesla 6.Turn the kit Off and disconnect the tube from the tire.. 7..
Drive within the indicated speed limit (shown on sticker on the tire repair kit) without suddenly accelerating or braking.
After approximately 10 minutes of driving, park in now that the sealant has been distributed in the tire.expiration date indicated on the label.. See Canister 3..
Insert the electrical plug into one of the vehicle's low 4.Remove the tire valve cap and connect the black inflation 5..
Turn the compressor On until it reaches the ideal pressure indicated on the driver's side door pillar of the vehicle.6.. Remove the black inflation tube and replace the tire valve 7..
Turn the compressor Off and store in a safe, dry place.1.. Purchase refills from the manufacturer or online from 2.. Remove the used canister by taking out the transparent 3..
Press the red release button while lifting out the canister.4.. Insert the new canister by pressing it firmly into the case.. 5..
Dispose of the empty canister properly according to local Learn how to perform simple Do It Yourself procedures, such as replacing wiper blades and cabin filters, or installing the paint protection film kit .
Go to https://www.tesla.com/support/do-it-yourself-guides  for instructions, animations, and videos of vehicle.
When navigating to https://www.tesla.com/support/do-it-yourself-guides , select your vehicle, region, and/or language to see an updated list of parts and accessories available for your region.
CAUTION:  Perform each procedure in a dry and well-lit area.For your safety, only perform a procedure if you feel comfortable doing so, and always follow provided instructions..
Model 3  is equipped with a Service Mode that is intended for use by qualified automotive professionals to conduct diagnostics, repairs, and maintenance on Tesla vehicles.
Service Mode allows you to view more information about vehicle alerts and perform some simple procedures, such as For more information about Service Mode and how to access it, refer to the applicable Service Manual on http:// CAUTION:  Improper use of Service Mode could result damage, or serious personal injury.
While in Service Mode, vehicle speed is limited and certain features (including security features such as Sentry Mode, if equipped) are disabled.
Always refer to the Service Manual for your vehicle for safety precautions and procedures and follow industry best practices.
Vehicle not covered by the warranty.Do It Y ourself Maintenance • Stamped on a plate located at the top of the dashboard.• Printed on the Vehicle Certification label, located on the door pillar..
This can be seen when the driver's door is • Cars manufactured in Gigafactory Shanghai  starting September 2020 : The VIN is stamped onto the floor and can be seen by moving the front right seat rearward and The emission control label is located on the opening face of emission control label is now located on the inside of the It is important to understand your vehicle's original tire sizes Both labels are visible on the door pillar when the front door or tires, your Model 3  may include an additional label indicating that values may differ from what is stated on the label.
If this is the case, see Accessory Wheels and Tires  on on braking and handling, which can compromise your CAUTION:  Never store large amounts of liquid in Model 3.
A significant spill can cause electrical components • The maximum number of occupant seating positions.• The cold inflation pressures for the original front and rear tires..
These pressures are recommended to optimize ride Never change this label, even if you use different tires in the all tires to ensure they are inflated to their recommended • GVWR  - Gross Vehicle Weight Rating.
The maximum allowable total mass of Model 3 .This is calculated as the weight of Model 3  equipped with the heaviest factory selectable options, all passengers, fluids, and cargo..
• GAWR  FRT and GAWR  RR - Gross Axle Weight Rating for the front and rear axles.
The GAWR  is the maximum CAUTION:  To prevent damage, never load Model 3  so that it is heavier than GVWR or exceeds the individual Model 3  does not currently support towing.
Towing can cause damage and increase the risk of a collision.
CAUTION:  Using Model 3  for towing without Tesla- Model 3  supports the use of Tesla-approved roof racks using a Tesla mounting accessory.
To install roof racks, you must use this accessory and you must use only roof rack systems that have been approved by Tesla  (see Parts and Accessories 1.
Locate the statement “The combined weight of occupants and cargo should never exceed XXX kg or XXX lbs.” on 2.
Determine the combined weight of the driver and passengers that will be riding in your vehicle.Vehicle Loading 4.The resulting figure equals the available amount of cargo and luggage load capacity..
For example, if the “XXX” amount equals 1400 lbs.and there will be five 150 lb passengers in your vehicle, the amount of available cargo and luggage load capacity is 650 lbs.. (1400-750 (5 × 5..
Determine the combined weight of luggage and cargo being loaded on the vehicle.That weight may not safely exceed the available cargo and luggage load capacity 6..
If your vehicle will be towing a trailer, load from your trailer will be transferred to your vehicle.Consult this manual to determine how this reduces the available cargo objects..
In a collision, or during hard braking and sharp turns, loose items in the cabin could injure occupants.Vehicle Loading *Values are approximate.
Dimensions can vary depending on a vehicle's options and various other factors.**The track of the vehicle is based on measurements at the wheel center..
prevent it from coming into contact with low ceilings or other objects.Rear motor: AC permanent magnet synchronous motor, liquid-cooled, with variable frequency drive..
Type Rack and pinion with electronic power steering, speed sensitive Distribution, Integrated Advanced Stability Control and Electronic Accelerator Parking brake Electrically actuated parking brake integrated into rear caliper Front Independent, double wishbone, coil spring/telescopic damper, sway bar Rear Independent, multi-link, coil spring/telescopic damper You can determine whether your vehicle is equipped with an LFP battery by navigating to Controls  > Software  > Additional Vehicle Information .
High voltage battery type  only shows when your battery is LFP.Tire pressures vary depending on the type of tires fitted..
Refer to the tire pressures printed on the Tire and Loading Information label.
This label is located on the center door pillar and is visible when the driver’s  door is open (see Maintaining Winter tires can be purchased from a Tesla service center or may be available for purchase on the Tesla web site.Wheels and Tires Laws require tire manufacturers to place standardized information on the sidewall of all tires.
This information identifies and Tesla-approved tires are designed to work with your vehicle and optimize performance, safety, reliability, and durability.
For more information about Tesla-approved replacement tires, refer to the Service Manual .1.. Tire category:  P indicates that the tire is for passenger vehicles.. 3..
Aspect ratio:  This two-digit number is the sidewall height as a percentage of the tread width.So, if the tread width is 205 mm, and the aspect ratio is 50, the sidewall height is 102 mm.. 4..
Tire construction:  R indicates that the tire is of Radial ply construction.5.. Wheel diameter:  This two-digit number is the diameter of the wheel rim in inches.. 6..
Load index:  This two- or three-digit number is the weight each tire can support.This number is not always shown.Wheels and Tires 8..
Tire composition and materials:  The number of plies in both the tread area and the sidewall area indicates how many layers of rubber coated material make up the structure of the tire.
Information is also provided on the type of materials used.9.. Maximum tire load:  The maximum load which can be carried by the tire.. 10..
Maximum permissible inflation pressure:  This pressure should not be used for normal driving.standards..
The next 2 digits/letters represent the plant code where it was manufactured, and the last 4 digits represent the week and year of manufacture.
For example, the number 1712 is used to represent the 17th week of 2012.The other numbers are marketing codes used at the manufacturer’s discretion..
This information can be used to contact consumers if 12.Treadwear grade:  This number indicates the tire’s wear rate..
The higher the treadwear number is, the longer it should take for the tread to wear down.A tire rated at 400, for example, lasts twice as long as a tire rated at 200.. 13..
Traction grade:  Indicates a tire’s ability to stop on wet roads.A higher graded tire should allow you to stop your vehicle in a shorter distance than a tire with a lower grade..
Traction is graded from highest to lowest as AA, A, B, and C.14.. Temperature grade:  The tire’s resistance to heat is grade A, B, or C, with A indicating the greatest resistance..
This grading is provided for a correctly inflated tire, which is being used within its speed and loading limits.Wheels and Tires The following information relates to the tire grading system developed by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration tires, are exempt from these marking requirements.
Where applicable, quality grades are found on the tire’s sidewall between the tread shoulder and maximum section width.
For The treadwear grade is a comparative rating based on the wear rate of the tire when tested under controlled conditions on a For example, a tire graded 150 wears one and a half times better on a government test course than a tire graded 100.
The relative performance of tires depends on the actual conditions of their use, however, and can depart significantly from the norm due to variations in driving habits, service practices, road characteristics, and climate.
The traction grades, from highest to lowest, are: AA, A, B, and C.
These grades represent a tire’s ability to stop on wet pavement as measured under controlled conditions on test surfaces of asphalt and concrete.A tire marked C might have poor incorrect pressure..
The safety of the vehicle and occupants can be adversely affected.Check tires regularly for wear and to ensure there are no cuts, bulges or exposure of the ply/cord structure..
acceleration, cornering, hydroplaning or peak traction characteristics.to dissipate heat when tested under controlled conditions on a specified indoor laboratory test wheel..
Sustained high temperature can cause the tire to degenerate and reduce tire life, and excessive temperature can lead to sudden tire failure.
The grade C corresponds to the minimum level of performance that all passenger car tires must meet under the Federal Motor Safety Standard No.109..
Grades B and A represent levels of performance on the laboratory test wheel that exceed the speed, under-inflation, or excessive loading, either separately or in combination, can cause heat buildup and possible Bead The inner edge of a tire that is shaped to fit to the rim and form an air tight seal.
The bead is constructed of steel wires which are wrapped, or reinforced, by the ply cords.
Cold Tire Pressure The air pressure in a tire that has been standing in excess of three hours, or driven for less than Curb Weight The weight of a standard vehicle, including any optional equipment fitted, and with the correct Gross Vehicle Weight The maximum permissible weight of a vehicle with driver, passengers, load, luggage, and PressureThe maximum pressure to which the tire should be inflated.
This pressure is given on the tire side CAUTION:  This pressure marked on the tire is the maximum allowed by the tire manufacturer.It is not the pressure Tesla recommends using for Model 3 ..
Vehicle WeightThe sum of curb weight, accessory weight, vehicle capacity weight, and production options standard items that they replaced, and are not already considered in curb or accessory weights.
Inflation PressureTire inflation pressure, established by Tesla, which is based on the type of tires that are mounted on the vehicle at the factory.
This information can be found on the Tire and Loading Information Rim The metal support for a tire, or tire and tube, upon which the tire beads are seated.
Occupant distribution Distribution of occupants in a vehicle.Rim type designation The manufacturing industry's designation for a rim by style or code..
Rim width Nominal distance between the rim's flanges.
the tireLoad on an individual tire that is determined by distributing to each axle its share of the maximum loaded vehicle weight and dividing by two.
tireLoad on an individual tire that is determined by distributing to each axle its share of the curb weight, accessory weight, and normal occupant weight and dividing by two.
Bead separation A breakdown of the bond between components in the bead.Wheels and Tires Bias ply tire A pneumatic tire in which the ply cords that extend to the beads are laid at alternate angles substantially less than 90 degrees to the center line of the tread.
Carcass The tire structure, except tread and sidewall rubber which, that when inflated, bears the load.Chunking The breaking away of pieces of the tread or sidewall..
Cord separation The parting of cords from adjacent rubber compounds.Cracking Any parting within the tread, sidewall, or inner liner of the tire extending to cord material..
Extra load tire A tire designed to operate at higher loads and higher inflation pressure than the corresponding Inner liner separation The parting of the inner liner from cord material in the carcass.
Load rating The maximum load that a tire is rated to carry for a given inflation pressure.Maximum load rating The load rating for a tire at the maximum permissible inflation pressure for that tire..
Measuring rim The rim on which a tire is fitted for physical dimension requirements.Open splice Any parting at any junction of tread, sidewall, or inner liner that extends to the cord material..
Outer diameter The overall diameter of an inflated new tire.
Overall width The linear distance between the exteriors of the sidewalls of an inflated tire, including elevations due to labeling, decorations, or protective bands or ribs.
Ply separation A parting of rubber compound between adjacent plies.
Pneumatic tire A mechanical device made of rubber, chemicals, fabric and steel or other materials, that, when mounted on an automotive wheel, provides the traction and contains the gas or fluid that sustains the Radial ply tire A pneumatic tire in which the ply cords that extend to the beads are laid at substantially 90 degrees Reinforced tire A tire designed to operate at higher loads and at higher inflation pressures than the corresponding Section width The linear distance between the exteriors of the sidewalls of an inflated tire, excluding elevations due Sidewall The portion of a tire between the tread and bead.
Sidewall separation The parting of the rubber compound from the cord material in the sidewall.
Snow tire A tire that attains a traction index equal to or greater than 110, compared to the ASTM E1136-93 (re- approved 2003, incorporated by reference, see §571.5) Standard Reference Test Tire when using the Test rim The rim on which a tire is fitted for testing, and may be any rim listed as appropriate for use with that Tread The portion of a tire that comes into contact with the road.
Tread rib A tread section running around the circumference of a tire.Tread separation The pulling away of the tread from the tire carcass..
fixtureThe fixture used to hold the wheel and tire assembly securely during testing.Wheels and Tires spin.Always transport Model 3  with all four tires off the ground..
Ensure that the tires are unable to spin at any time Do not transport Model 3  using any method that is not specified by Tesla.Adhere to the instructions provided in the provided..
Damage caused by improper transporting of your services not dispatched through Tesla Roadside Assistance.
A flatbed truck or comparable transport vehicle is the recommended method of transporting Model 3 .
The vehicle If Model 3  must be transported without a flatbed truck, then wheel lifts and dollies must be used to ensure that all four wheels are off of the ground.
This method may only be used manufacturer speed rating of the dollies.
With this method, Tesla recommends the vehicle facing forward so that the front wheels are lifted and the rear wheels are on dollies.
Tow Mode  is not available or the touchscreen is not accessible, self-loading dollies or tire skates must be transportation position.
Tesla is not responsible for any damage caused by or during the transport of Model 3 , including personal property damage or damage caused Model 3  onto a flatbed truck or repositioning the vehicle out of a parking space.
While in Tow Mode , the tires are allowed significant damage and overheating that is not covered by components that may be compromised as a result of a Before transporting Model 3 , it is important to assume these components are energized.
Always follow high protection equipment, etc.) until emergency response accurately confirm that all high voltage systems are no longer energized.
Failure to do so may result in serious Tow Mode  keeps the parking brake disengaged while winching Model 3  onto a flatbed truck.
When active, Tow Mode  displays a confirmation pop up indicating the requirements for the vehicle to enter Tow Mode .Once Tow Mode  is enabled, Model 3  remains free-rolling..
The following • Ensure the vehicle is not connected to a charger.Tow Mode  is not available if Model 3  is still plugged in.. • Model 3  must detect a key..
Tow Mode  is available only • Model 3  needs Low voltage  power.
If the vehicle has no low voltage  power, attempt to jump start the low voltage system so that you can use the touchscreen to activate 1.Ensure Model 3  is in Park.Instructions for Transporters 2..
Chock the tires or make sure Model 3  is secure.3.. Press and hold the brake pedal, then on the touchscreen, touch Controls  > Service  > Towing .. The touchscreen 4.. Touch Enter Tow Mode ..
The button turns blue to show that Model 3  is now in Tow Mode .
Model 3  is now free-rolling short distances or winched (for example, onto a flatbed To cancel Tow Mode , touch Exit Tow Mode  or shift Model 3 into Park.
You must have your phone key or a key card may cancel if Model 3  loses low voltage  power after Tow CAUTION:  If the electrical system is not working, and you therefore cannot use the touchscreen to activate Tow Mode , use self-loading dollies or tire skates.
external low voltage  power supply to open the hood or use CAUTION:  To avoid damage, only pull the vehicle onto a flatbed truck using a properly-installed tow eye.
Using the chassis, frame, or suspension components to pull 1.Locate the tow eye.. The tow eye is located in the front 2..
Release the tow eye cover by pressing firmly on its top right perimeter until it pivots inward, then gently pull the 3.
Fully insert the tow eye into the opening, then turn it CAUTION:  Before pulling, make sure the tow eye is The vehicle's tires must be secured onto the truck using the • Ensure any metal parts on the tie-down straps do not contact painted surfaces or the face of the wheels.
• Do not place tie-down straps over the body panels or chassis, suspension or other parts of the vehicle's body If Model 3  has no low voltage  power, perform the following steps to open the hood or jump start the low voltage  battery.
1.Open the hood.. See Opening the Hood with No Power  on 2..
Jump start the low voltage  battery (see Jump Starting  on 229  for more information on transporting the vehicle to a charging station and preparing the vehicle to charge.
slightly when you open or close a door, always connect opening a door if the vehicle has no power to avoid Tesla Roadside Assistance is available to you 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, for the duration of your warranty period.
Tesla Roadside Assistance is also available to speak with roadside service professionals to answer any questions and explain the When contacting Tesla Roadside Assistance, please provide: seen by looking through the driver's side of the windshield.
If available in your region, you can also expedite your request, by choosing the Roadside Assistance option in the Tesla mobile CAUTION:  It is your responsibility to monitor the state of the high voltage Battery and the remaining range of your vehicle.
Do not assume that there is any range available when the range displayed on the touchscreen battery due to running out of range is not covered by while driving, pull over when safe to do so and contact Tesla If Model 3  runs out of range, the low voltage  battery is no longer supported – and when low voltage  is not supported, the vehicle cannot charge.
Therefore, the low voltage  battery must be supported by an external power supply to allow you begins charging, the external power supply is no longer In the case of running out of range away from a charger, the tow provider should transport Model 3  to the nearest charging station and unload the vehicle within the charging cable's reach.
Once the vehicle is positioned next to a sure the tow provider does not leave until confirming that the vehicle's high voltage Battery is successfully charging.1..
Jump start the low voltage system (see Jump Starting  on 2.Wait a few minutes.. Once the touchscreen powers on, plug the charge cable into Model 3  to begin charging the 3..
When Model 3  begins to charge, disconnect the external vehicle touchscreen two minutes after the external power supply is disconnected, it is necessary to perform additional steps to recover the low voltage battery.
For more information, navigate to your vehicle's Service Manual on service.tesla.com  and refer to the "LV Battery - Before transporting to a non-Tesla charger, ensure your vehicle is equipped with an adapter that accommodates the specific type of charging station you will be using.
Even at a non-Tesla charger, you will need to jump start the low voltage for your drive, or for being stored for an extended period.
Do not rely on the range estimates displayed on the touchscreen or mobile app as range can decrease driving habits, wind, vehicle settings (such as Sentry is not covered by the warranty.Running Out of Range In the unlikely event that Model 3  has no low voltage  power, you will be unable to open the front trunk using the touchscreen  , key fob,  or mobile app.
To open the front trunk 1.Locate an external low voltage  power supply (such as a 2.. Release the tow eye cover by pressing firmly on the top right perimeter of the cover until it pivots inward..
Pull out the tow eye cover to reveal the wires.One wire is red and 3.. Pull the two wires out of the tow eye opening to expose terminals only releases the hood latches..
You cannot charge the low voltage  battery using these terminals.
Do not leave the low voltage  power cables connected to the terminals for more than 30 seconds – remove from the vehicle's terminals as soon as the hood unlatches.6..
Turn on the external power supply (refer to the manufacturer’s instructions).The hood latches are immediately released and you can now open the hood to 7..
Disconnect both cables, beginning with the black 8.If pulling the vehicle onto a flatbed truck, do not replace the tow eye cover yet..
If necessary, install the tow eye cover by inserting the wires into the tow eye opening and aligning the tow eye cover into position and snapping it The procedure for jump starting differs depending on whether the low voltage battery is lead-acid or lithium-ion.
To determine which battery your vehicle uses, touch Controls > Software  > Additional Vehicle Information .
Both procedures The following instructions assume you are using an external jump starting Model 3  using another vehicle, refer to the Model 3 .
Connecting cables to the wrong jump post, touching leads together, etc., can damage Model 3 .
Vehicles manufactured in Gigafactory Shanghai before approximately October 2021, and in the Fremont Factory before approximately December 2021, are equipped with a If jump starting Model 3  using another vehicle, refer to that vehicle manufacturer's instructions.
The following instructions assume you are using an external low voltage 1.Open the hood (see Opening the Hood with No Power  on 2..
Remove the maintenance panel by pulling it upwards gently but firmly to release the trim clips that hold it in 3.
Remove the cabin intake trim panel by pulling it upwards gently but firmly to release the trim clips that hold it in CAUTION:  To avoid damaging Model 3 , do not allow 6.
Turn on the external power supply (refer to the manufacturer’s instructions).Touch the touchscreen to 7..
When external low voltage  power is no longer required, disconnect both cables from the terminals on the battery, 8.
Reinstall the cabin intake trim panel by placing it back in its original location and pressing down until it is secure.9.
Replace the maintenance panel by placing it back in its original location and pressing down until it is secure.
Vehicles manufactured in Gigafactory Shanghai after approximately October 2021, and in the Fremont Factory after approximately December 2021, are equipped with a 1.
Open the hood (see Opening the Hood with No Power  on 2.Remove the maintenance panel by pulling it upwards gently but firmly to release the trim clips that hold it in 3..
Remove the red cover and connect the external low 4.Connect the external low voltage power supply’s black fluid reservoir and the front trunk ..
The bolt is used as a grounding location for the external support.Jump Starting 5.Turn on the external power supply (refer to the manufacturer’s instructions).. Touch the touchscreen to 6..
When external low voltage  power is no longer required, disconnect both cables, beginning with the black negative 7.
Reinstall the maintenance panel by placing it back in its original location and pressing down until it is secure.
To open a front door in the unlikely situation when Model 3 has no power, pull up the manual door release located in front Model 3  has no power or if otherwise necessary.
When Model 3  has power, use the button located at the top of the interior door handle.
Use caution when using the manual door release; the window will not automatically Vehicle submersion can be caused by a flood or other extreme weather conditions.
Tesla wants to ensure you have the resources should there be a risk of vehicle submersion or Review these recommendations to help prepare for a potential vehicle submersion, know how to handle a If a submersion event is in the forecast and it is safe for you to preemptively move your vehicle, Tesla recommends you attempt to move Model 3  to a location that is not at risk, or to higher ground.
Keep in mind that charging infrastructure may be impacted, so Tesla recommends charging to 100% ahead However, if you are unable to move your vehicle to an area that is not at risk of flooding, consider the following best • Make sure to unplug the charger from your vehicle.
• Reduce the state of charge.
This can be done by driving the vehicle ahead of time and leaving it unplugged, or by turning on climate controls or enabling Keep Climate On using your vehicle touchscreen or Tesla mobile app (see to have the charge level as low as possible if the vehicle • Lift the vehicle so that the high voltage Battery is above a potential flood line by raising it on jack stands, cinder blocks, ramps, etc.
Remember to enable Jack Mode  (see • Leave Model 3  in a water-tight car cover, or similar product, specifically designed to protect vehicles from Know what to do if your vehicle, whether it's an electric vehicle or internal combustion engine vehicle, has been hissing or heating coming from your vehicle, step away and immediately contact your local first responders.
Follow these steps once the vehicle is no longer submerged 1.Treat your vehicle as if it has been in an accident and 2..
Do not attempt to operate the vehicle until an authorized shop has inspected it.
If you are a Tesla vehicle owner, you structures or other combustible materials such as other cars and personal property.◦ Tesla owners can request towing assistance from Tesla.
See Contacting Tesla Roadside Assistance  on information on how to safely tow or move your vehicle.Submerged Vehicle Guidance This section contains information about the various alerts that can display on your vehicle.
Refer to this section to understand what an alert means and for steps to troubleshoot the issue.The Automatic Emergency Braking feature is unavailable for the rest of your current drive..
This alert does not specifically indicate any other braking functions or features are unavailable.This alert may be present for several reasons..
Other alerts may be present for conditions that also cause Automatic No action is typically required.Automatic Emergency Braking will usually be available again when you start your next drive..
If this alert persists across multiple drives, or occurs with increasing frequency over several drives, it is recommended that you Self-Driving  features are currently unavailable on your vehicle.
Depending on the configuration of your vehicle, Self-Driving This alert can be set for several reasons.Check for additional alerts that indicate the cause of this condition..
Typically, Self-Driving  features are restored on your next drive.If this alert persists across multiple drives, schedule service at Autosteer  is temporarily unavailable..
This could be a temporary condition caused by an external factor, such as: • Missing or faded lane markers.Troubleshooting Alerts • Poor visibility due to rain, snow, fog, or other weather.
• Bright light due to other vehicle headlights, direct sunlight, or other light sources.This alert will also be present if you exceeded the maximum speed limit for Autosteer  with Autosteer  active..
In this case, Autosteer  will not be available for the rest of your current drive.Continue to your destination..
If Autosteer  is not available by the time you reach your destination, and remains unavailable during your next planned drive, check for the following: • Damage or obstruction caused by mud, ice, snow, or other environmental factors • Obstruction caused by an object mounted on the vehicle, like a bike rack • Obstructions caused by adding paint or adhesive products like wraps, stickers, or rubber coatings to your vehicle If there are no obvious obstructions, or if you find damage to the vehicle, schedule service at your convenience.
Your vehicle is Autosteer  is unavailable because your vehicle has exceeded the maximum speed limit for this driver assistance feature.
Take immediate control of the steering wheel  and maintain control until you reach your destination.In most cases, Autosteer  will not be available for the rest of your current drive..
To reset it, bring the vehicle to a complete stop and shift into Park.When you shift into Drive to travel to your next destination, Autosteer  should be available again..
If Autosteer  is not available during your next drive, and remains unavailable throughout subsequent drives, schedule service at your convenience.Your vehicle is OK to drive in the meantime..
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  and Autosteer  are unavailable because one or more of the front cameras in your vehicle is Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  and Autosteer  will remain unavailable while a front camera lacks adequate visibility.
Cameras may • Environmental conditions like rain, fog, snow, or dew.Troubleshooting Alerts • Bright sunlight or glare from another light source.
• Low or limited light conditions, including unlit or poorly lit roadways at night.• Monotonous environmental features, including tunnel walls or highway dividers.. Continue to your destination..
Your vehicle is OK to drive.This is often a temporary issue that clears up on its own..
If the alert does not clear by the end of your drive: • Inspect and clean the front camera area at the top center of the windshield before your next planned drive.
• Check the camera surface for condensation, dirt, or other debris and attempt to clear any obstruction.
Although condensation on the inside of the front camera enclosure cannot be wiped clean, you can usually clear it quicker by 1.
Pre-condition the cabin with the temperature set to High and A/C turned ON.
If this alert persists throughout subsequent drives but no front camera obstruction is visible, schedule service at your earliest convenience.Your vehicle is OK to drive in the meantime..
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  and Autosteer  are unavailable because the cameras on your vehicle are not fully calibrated.
Your vehicle must maneuver with great precision when features like Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  and Autosteer  are active.
Before these features can be used for the first time, the cameras must complete an initial self-calibration.Occasionally, one or Continue to your destination.. Your vehicle is OK to drive..
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  and Autosteer  will remain unavailable until camera calibration is complete.
When calibration is complete, Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  and Autosteer  should be available.For your convenience, a calibration progress indicator is displayed on the touchscreen..
Calibration typically completes after example, driving on a straight road with highly visible lane markings helps the cameras calibrate quicker.
Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  and Autosteer  remain unavailable despite successful camera calibration, schedule service at your earliest convenience.Your vehicle is OK to drive in the meantime..
One or more of the vehicle cameras has limited visibility, or no visibility at all, due to external conditions.
When the cameras on your vehicle cannot provide accurate visual information, some or all Self-Driving  features may be temporarily unavailable.• Environmental conditions like rain, fog, snow, or dew..
• Bright sunlight or glare from another light source.• Low or limited light conditions, including unlit or poorly lit roadways at night..
• Monotonous environmental features, including tunnel walls or highway dividers.Continue to your destination.. Your vehicle is OK to drive..
This is often a temporary issue that will be resolved when condensation evaporates, or when a particular environmental condition or feature is no longer present.
If the alert does not clear by the time you reach your destination, check camera surfaces for condensation, dirt, or other Clean the cameras as necessary before your next planned drive.
For recommended cleaning procedures, see Cleaning a If you continue to see this alert after cleaning the cameras, check the inside surfaces of the door pillar camera enclosures for condensation.
Although condensation inside the camera enclosures cannot be wiped clean, you can usually clear it faster by 1.
Precondition the cabin by turning Climate ON, setting temperature to High, and making sure A/C is ON.3.. Direct the air vents toward the door pillar cameras..
recommended steps to clear condensation, schedule service at your next convenient opportunity.
Your vehicle is OK to drive A layer of hazy residue has been detected on the windshield, which is causing an obstruction for the camera view.
As a result, one or more of the vehicle cameras might have limited visibility.
When the cameras on your vehicle cannot provide accurate visual information, some or all Self-Driving  features may be Your vehicle is OK to drive.Continue to your destination..
If the alert has not cleared by the time you reach your destination, check the windshield for the following: • Obstruction caused by dirt, mist, ice, snow, or other environmental factors.
• Obstruction caused by wiper streaks.Troubleshooting Alerts If there are no obvious obstructions and the alert appears during your next planned drive, schedule Service at your convenience to have the inside of the windshield camera area cleaned.
To check if your vehicle needs cleaning for the inside of the windshield camera area, review the Maintenance Summary by tapping Controls > Service > Maintenance  on your vehicle touchscreen.
Your vehicle has detected a condition internal to the high voltage battery that is limiting the battery’s performance.
Service is Your vehicle's maximum range may be reduced, and your vehicle may take longer to charge than before.
Maximum charge rate varies, as always, based on location, power source, and charging equipment.It is recommended that you schedule service at your earliest convenience..
Without service, your vehicle may continue to show further reductions in maximum range and charging performance and may also begin to show reduced power and acceleration While this alert remains present, keep your vehicle charged to 30% capacity or higher to avoid any discrepancy between the estimated range displayed on your vehicle's touchscreen and the actual high voltage battery charge level.
Your vehicle has detected a condition internal to the high voltage battery that is limiting the battery’s performance.
You may notice that your vehicle's top speed is reduced and it responds slower than previously to acceleration requests.
Your vehicle's maximum range may be reduced, and your vehicle may take longer to charge than before.Maximum charge rate varies, as always, based on location, power source, and charging equipment..
It is recommended that you schedule service at your earliest opportunity.Without service, your vehicle may continue to show reduced power, acceleration, range, and charging performance..
While this alert remains present, keep your vehicle charged to 30% capacity or higher to avoid any discrepancy between the estimated range displayed on your vehicle's touchscreen and the actual high voltage battery charge level.
Your vehicle has detected that the high voltage battery does not have enough energy remaining to support driving.
This alert is usually present because your vehicle's high voltage battery charge level has been reduced through normal operation.
Your vehicle will be unable to drive or continue driving until charged.If this alert is present while you are driving, your vehicle needs to shut down..
A separate vehicle alert should be present to indicate this condition.It is also possible your vehicle may shut down unexpectedly..
If this alert is present when your vehicle is parked, you may be unable to drive.Charge your vehicle immediately.. Charging your vehicle should restore your vehicle's ability to drive..
If this alert occurs during subsequent drives, despite a displayed battery charge level of 5% or higher, schedule service at your Your vehicle has detected a condition internal to the high voltage battery that is limiting the battery's performance.
As a result, maximum charge level and range is reduced.Service is required to restore full performance.. • Your vehicle is OK to drive..
Your vehicle is able to charge when the state of charge is below 50%.Charging will not start if • If this alert persists, schedule service at your earliest convenience..
Without service, you may notice further reductions in Your vehicle has detected a condition internal to the high voltage battery that is limiting the battery's ability to charge 50% of • Your vehicle is OK to drive.
Your vehicle is able to charge when the state of charge is below 50%.Charging will not start if • If this alert persists, schedule service at your earliest convenience..
Without service, you may notice further reductions in Proper wiring or outlet grounding must be verified No ground connection detected in the Wall Connector.
Have the Wall Connector inspected by an electrician to make sure it is properly grounded.
Your electrician should ensure there is proper grounding at your circuit breaker or power distribution box and also ensure that appropriate connections are made to For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.
Ground fault.Current is leaking through an unsafe path.. Possible Line to ground or Neutral to ground fault.. Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting..
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker servicing the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, turn the circuit breaker ON again, then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.
If the issue persists, consult your electrician or contact Tesla.For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.. Ground fault.. Current is leaking through an unsafe path..
Possible Line to ground or Neutral to ground fault.Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting..
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker servicing the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, turn the circuit breaker ON again, then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.
If the issue persists, consult your electrician or contact Tesla.For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.Troubleshooting Alerts Wall Connector hardware issue..
Possible issues include: 2.Self-test of internal ground fault monitoring circuit failed An internal issue was detected by the Wall Connector.. 1..
Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting.2..
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker for the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, and turn the circuit breaker ON again.Then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.. 3..
If the issue persists, have an electrician make sure all wires are properly connected and torqued according to the instructions in the Wall Connector Installation Manual.4..
Once your electrician has completed all work and restored power to the Wall Connector, try charging again by 5.If the issue persists, the Wall Connector requires service..
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.Ground fault.. Current is leaking through an unsafe path.. Possible Line to ground or Neutral to ground fault..
Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting.
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker servicing the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, turn the circuit breaker ON again, then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.
If the issue persists, consult your electrician or contact Tesla.For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.. Reduce the vehicle's charge current setting..
If the issue persists, service is required.Troubleshooting Alerts For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.
Consult your electrician to ensure appropriate voltage on the circuit breaker that services the Wall Connector.For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector..
Consult your electrician to ensure appropriate voltage on the circuit breaker that services the Wall Connector.For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector..
Input miswired: possibly Line and Neutral are swapped.The wiring between the wall power and the Wall Connector has been incorrectly installed.. Consult your electrician..
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.Wall Connector hardware issue.. Possible issues include: 2.. Self-test of internal ground fault monitoring circuit failed 4..
Other hardware component issuesTroubleshooting Alerts An internal issue was detected by the Wall Connector.1..
Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting.2..
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker for the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, and turn the circuit breaker ON again.Then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.. 3..
If the issue persists, have an electrician make sure all wires are properly connected and torqued according to the instructions in the Wall Connector Installation Manual.4..
Once your electrician has completed all work and restored power to the Wall Connector, try charging again by 5.If the issue persists, the Wall Connector requires service..
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.Make sure the Wall Connector is not covered by anything and that there is no heat source nearby..
If the problem persists in For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.
High temperature detected by Wall Connector alerts indicate the building connection to the Wall Connector is getting too warm, so charging has stopped to protect the wiring and Wall Connector.
This is not typically an issue with your vehicle or your Wall Connector, but rather an issue with the building wiring.
This may be caused by a loose building wiring connection to the Wall Connector and can be fixed quickly by an electrician.To regain normal charge operation, try the following steps..
If the Wall Connector is plugged into a wall outlet, make sure: • The plug is fully inserted into the receptacle / outlet • The plug / outlet area is not blocked or covered by anything If the issue persists or the Wall Connector is hard-wired, contact an electrician to inspect the building wiring connection to the Wall Connector.
They should make sure that all wires are properly connected and torqued according to the installation guide For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.Troubleshooting Alerts Make sure the connector is fully inserted into the charge inlet in the vehicle's charging port, is not covered by anything, and For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.
Wall Connector hardware issue.Possible issues include: 2.. Self-test of internal ground fault monitoring circuit failed An internal issue was detected by the Wall Connector.. 1..
Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting.2..
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker for the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, and turn the circuit breaker ON again.Then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.. 3..
If the issue persists, have an electrician make sure all wires are properly connected and torqued according to the instructions in the Wall Connector Installation Manual.4..
Once your electrician has completed all work and restored power to the Wall Connector, try charging again by 5.If the issue persists, the Wall Connector requires service..
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.A communication error occurred between the Wall Connector and the vehicle..
Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting.Troubleshooting Alerts 1.
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker servicing the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, turn the circuit breaker ON again, then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.2..
If the issue persists and other charging equipment is available, plug the vehicle into another Wall Connector or a Mobile Connector to determine if the vehicle is able to communicate with other charging equipment.
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.A communication error occurred between the Wall Connector and the vehicle..
Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting.1..
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker servicing the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, turn the circuit breaker ON again, then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.2..
If the issue persists and other charging equipment is available, plug the vehicle into another Wall Connector or a Mobile Connector to determine if the vehicle is able to communicate with other charging equipment.
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.A communication error occurred between the Wall Connector and the vehicle..
Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting.1..
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker servicing the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, turn the circuit breaker ON again, then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.2..
If the issue persists and other charging equipment is available, plug the vehicle into another Wall Connector or a Mobile Connector to determine if the vehicle is able to communicate with other charging equipment.
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.
A communication error occurred between the Wall Connector and the vehicle.Troubleshooting Alerts Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting.1..
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker servicing the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, turn the circuit breaker ON again, then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.2..
If the issue persists and other charging equipment is available, plug the vehicle into another Wall Connector or a Mobile Connector to determine if the vehicle is able to communicate with other charging equipment.
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.A communication error occurred between the Wall Connector and the vehicle..
Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting.1..
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker servicing the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, turn the circuit breaker ON again, then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.2..
If the issue persists and other charging equipment is available, plug the vehicle into another Wall Connector or a Mobile Connector to determine if the vehicle is able to communicate with other charging equipment.
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.Wall Connector hardware issue.. Possible issues include: 2..
Self-test of internal ground fault monitoring circuit failed An internal issue was detected by the Wall Connector.1..
Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting.2..
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker for the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, and turn the circuit breaker ON again.Then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.. 3..
If the issue persists, have an electrician make sure all wires are properly connected and torqued according to the instructions in the Wall Connector Installation Manual.Troubleshooting Alerts 4.
Once your electrician has completed all work and restored power to the Wall Connector, try charging again by 5.If the issue persists, the Wall Connector requires service..
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.Only one Wall Connector can be set to a primary configuration.. Have your electrician confirm: 1..
Only one of the Wall Connectors is set as primary.For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.. Only one Wall Connector can be set to a primary configuration..
Have your electrician confirm: 1.Only one of the Wall Connectors is set as primary.. For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector..
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.Troubleshooting Alerts Have your electrician adjust the Wall Connector’s internal rotary switch to a valid operating current setting.
They should first make sure there is no power to the Wall Connector.The correlation between switch setting and current should be printed on the inside of the Wall Connector..
Your electrician should also refer to the Set the Operating Current section in the Wall switch of the primary unit must be set to an operating current setting that allows each paired Wall Connector to receive at Example: Three Wall Connectors are paired for load sharing.
The primary unit needs to be set to a current of at least 3 * 6A = For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.Wall Connector hardware issue..
Possible issues include: 2.Self-test of internal ground fault monitoring circuit failed An internal issue was detected by the Wall Connector.. 1..
Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting.2..
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker for the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, and turn the circuit breaker ON again.Then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.. 3..
If the issue persists, have an electrician make sure all wires are properly connected and torqued according to the instructions in the Wall Connector Installation Manual.4..
Once your electrician has completed all work and restored power to the Wall Connector, try charging again by 5.If the issue persists, the Wall Connector requires service..
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.Troubleshooting Alerts Wall Connector hardware issue.Possible issues include: 2..
Self-test of internal ground fault monitoring circuit failed An internal issue was detected by the Wall Connector.1..
Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting.2..
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker for the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, and turn the circuit breaker ON again.Then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.. 3..
If the issue persists, have an electrician make sure all wires are properly connected and torqued according to the instructions in the Wall Connector Installation Manual.4..
Once your electrician has completed all work and restored power to the Wall Connector, try charging again by 5.If the issue persists, the Wall Connector requires service..
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.Wall Connector hardware issue.. Possible issues include: 2..
Self-test of internal ground fault monitoring circuit failed An internal issue was detected by the Wall Connector.1..
Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting.2..
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker for the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, and turn the circuit breaker ON again.Then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.. 3..
If the issue persists, have an electrician make sure all wires are properly connected and torqued according to the instructions in the Wall Connector Installation Manual.4..
Once your electrician has completed all work and restored power to the Wall Connector, try charging again by 5.
If the issue persists, the Wall Connector requires service.Troubleshooting Alerts For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.
Have your electrician adjust the Wall Connector’s internal rotary switch to a valid operating current setting.They should first make sure there is no power to the Wall Connector..
The correlation between switch setting and current should be printed on the inside of the Wall Connector.
Your electrician should also refer to the Set the Operating Current section in the Wall switch of the primary unit must be set to an operating current setting that allows each paired Wall Connector to receive at Example: Three Wall Connectors are paired for load sharing.
The primary unit needs to be set to a current of at least 3 * 6A = For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.
A communication error occurred between the Wall Connector and the vehicle.Try charging again by disconnecting the Wall Connector from the vehicle and reconnecting.. 1..
If the issue persists, turn OFF the circuit breaker servicing the Wall Connector, wait 10 seconds, turn the circuit breaker ON again, then try reconnecting the Wall Connector to the vehicle.2..
If the issue persists and other charging equipment is available, plug the vehicle into another Wall Connector or a Mobile Connector to determine if the vehicle is able to communicate with other charging equipment.
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.network.. Have your electrician inspect the type labels on the Wall Connectors and make sure the current capabilities match..
It is further recommended that your electrician only pair Wall Connectors with the same part number, as an easy way to make For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.
High temperature detected by Wall Connector alerts indicate the building connection to the Wall Connector is getting too warm, so charging has been slowed to protect the wiring and Wall Connector.
This is not typically an issue with your vehicle or your Wall Connector, but rather an issue with the building wiring.
This may be caused by a loose building wiring connection to the Wall Connector and can be fixed quickly by an electrician.
Contact an electrician to inspect the building wiring connection to the Wall Connector.
They should make sure that all wires are properly connected and torqued according to the installation guide for the Wall Connector.
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.
The Wall Connector needs to be commissioned to appropriately configure the circuit breaker size and protective earth For more information, refer to Commissioning Procedure in the Wall Connector Installation Manual.
If the issue persists, contact an electrician to inspect the building wiring connection to the Wall Connector.
They should make sure the power output and grounding connections are properly configured according to the installation guide for the Wall Connector.
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.The charge port is unable to detect whether a charge cable is inserted, or the type of charge cable connected..
This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
If this alert appears while a charge cable is connected, determine whether the issue is caused by the charging equipment or the vehicle.
Try charging the vehicle using different external charging equipment (including charge cable, charging station, or • If the vehicle begins charging, the issue was likely with the equipment.
• If the vehicle still does not charge, the issue may be with the vehicle.
If this alert appears while a charge cable is not connected or if the issue is suspected to be with the vehicle, inspect the charge port inlet and the charge cable connector for any obstructions, such as debris, moisture, and/or foreign objects.
Make sure any charge port inlet obstruction has been removed and any moisture has been allowed to dry, then try re-inserting the cable You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Your vehicle is unable to charge because it cannot communicate effectively with the external charging equipment.
It cannot sense a valid control pilot signal coming from the charging equipment.
This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
First, confirm the lack of effective communication is caused by the external charging equipment rather than an issue with your Try charging the vehicle using different external charging equipment (including charge cable, charging station, or charging • If the vehicle begins charging, the issue was likely with the equipment.
• If the vehicle still does not charge, the issue may be with the vehicle.
If the issue is suspected to be with the vehicle, inspect the charge port inlet and the charge cable connector for any obstructions, such as debris, moisture, and/or foreign objects.
Make sure any charge port inlet obstruction has been removed and any moisture has been allowed to dry, then try re-inserting the cable into the charge port.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's One of the charge port door sensors is not functioning normally.
When this occurs, the charge port may be unable to accurately sense the charge port door position and the charge port may not operate as expected.
• The charge port latch may intermittently remain engaged when the charge port door is opened.• The charge port light may illuminate only intermittently when the charge port door is opened..
Try closing the charge port door and then opening it again.Charging stopped because communication between the vehicle and the external charging equipment was interrupted..
This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
Confirm whether the external charging equipment is powered by looking for any status lights, displays, or other indicators on If the equipment is not powered, try to restore the external charging equipment’s power source.
• If attempting to charge at a public station and power is unable to be restored, contact the station operator.
If the equipment is powered, try charging the vehicle using different external charging equipment.• If the vehicle begins charging, the issue was likely with the equipment..
• If the vehicle still does not charge, the issue may be with the vehicle.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's One of the charge port door sensors is not communicating properly.
The charge port may not recognize the request to open You can still use all other usual methods to open the charge port door:Troubleshooting Alerts • With your vehicle unlocked, press the charge handle button on any Tesla charge cable, including a Wall Connector, Mobile • Hold and press the trunk button on your key fob.
Charging cannot begin because the charging equipment is not ready.A charge handle is detected, but the charging station is not communicating with the vehicle..
This issue could occur because: • The control pilot signal between the charging station and the vehicle is interrupted.
This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
Try charging the vehicle with different charging equipment or at a different charging station.• If the vehicle begins charging, the issue was likely with the equipment..
• If the vehicle still does not charge, the issue may be with the vehicle.If using a Mobile Connector or Wall Connector, first check the status lights on the front..
If no status lights are visible, check the power source and contact an electrician to inspect the building wiring connection to the wall outlet or the Wall Connector to confirm that all wires are properly connected and torqued.
If using other external charging equipment, consult the product's owner's manual to learn how to confirm that the station is powered.
Contact an electrician to inspect the building wiring and charging equipment as necessary.
For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located Fully insert charge cable or check for obstruction The charge port latch is unable to latch the charge cable in the charge port inlet.
If the latch is not engaged , AC charging (for example, charging with a Mobile Connector or Wall Connector) will be limited to 16A and  DC Fast Charging / Supercharging The charge port light will pulse amber if this alert appears during AC charging and will be solid amber if this alert appears This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.Troubleshooting Alerts Try re-inserting the charge cable fully into the charge port inlet.
If your vehicle begins charging and the charge port light pulses green, the charge cable may not have been fully inserted before.
AC charging should no longer be limited, and DC Fast Charging / Supercharging should be available.
If charging is still limited or the vehicle will not charge at all, inspect the charge port inlet and the charge cable connector for any obstructions, such as debris, moisture, and/or foreign objects.
Make sure any charge port inlet obstruction has been removed and any moisture has been allowed to dry, then try re-inserting the cable into the charge port.
If charging is still limited or the vehicle will not charge at all,  make sure the charge port latch manual release cable (located on You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Charging stopped because communication between the vehicle and the external charging equipment was interrupted.
This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
Confirm whether the external charging equipment is powered by looking for any status lights, displays, or other indicators on the equipment.
For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Manual at Charging & Adapter Product Guides .
If the equipment is not powered, try to restore the external charging equipment’s power source.
• If attempting to charge at a public station and power is unable to be restored, contact the station operator.
If the equipment is powered, try charging the vehicle using different external charging equipment.• If the vehicle begins charging, the issue was likely with the equipment..
• If the vehicle still does not charge, the issue may be with the vehicle.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located Charging has stopped because your vehicle has detected that the connection between the charge port and charge cable has Before disconnecting a charge cable, make sure you first stop charging.
With some external charging equipment, charging may be stopped by pressing the button on the charge handle.
You can also stop charging from your vehicle touchscreen, your Tesla Mobile App, or the charging station.
Your vehicle is unable to charge because it has detected one of the following conditions and has tried to charge too many • The charge port is unable to detect whether a charge cable is inserted or detect the type of charge cable connected.
• Your vehicle is unable to sense a valid pilot control signal coming from the charging station, so it cannot communicate • Communication between your vehicle and the external charging equipment has been interrupted.
• The external charging equipment has reported an error that prevents your vehicle from charging.When this alert is present, the vehicle will retry charging after some time..
If the issues mentioned above are resolved, the vehicle will then resume charging.
If you wish to retry charging sooner, disconnect the charge cable from the charge port and For more information and troubleshooting suggestions, check in your vehicle touchscreen under Controls > Service > Notifications  for other recent alerts that involve charging.
Charging cannot begin because the charging station is communicating to your vehicle that either the external charging equipment is not ready or charging is not authorized.
The control pilot signal that communicates between the charging station and your vehicle indicates that your vehicle is not allowed to start charging.
• The charging station is actively delaying charging.
For example, this can happen because the station has a scheduled • The charging station requires further activation before the charge session can begin.
Some additional authentication may be needed before the station starts charging your vehicle, such as a charging card, a mobile app, or a credit card.
This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
Check the charging station for any instructions that explain the steps necessary to enable charging.
For example, look for a touchscreen terminal, LED status indicators, printed instructions, or a payment interface that might provide guidance.
If you cannot enable charging on the current charging station, try charging the vehicle  with different charging equipment or  at a • If the vehicle begins charging, the issue was likely with the equipment.
• If the vehicle still does not charge, the issue may be with the vehicle.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's The charge port latch cannot unlatch the charge cable, and cold ambient temperature is detected.
To remove any strain on the cable, re-insert the charge cable fully into the charge port inlet.
Try again to unlatch the charge If the charge cable still cannot be removed, the charge port latch may be frozen.
To help thaw any ice on the charge port latch, press the Defrost Car  button in your Tesla Mobile App to defrost your vehicle for It may also be possible to thaw any ice affecting the charge port latch by turning on rear defrost via your vehicle touchscreen.
Some vehicles are equipped with a charge port inlet heater that turns on when you turn on the rear defrost in cold weather If the charge cable still cannot be removed, try the charge port manual release  cable in your vehicle’s trunk .
1.Make sure your vehicle is not actively charging.. ◦ On your vehicle touchscreen, access the charging screen.. 3.. Pull the charge port release cable downwards to unlatch the charge cable..
The charge port latch is unable to secure the charge cable in the charge port inlet, and cold ambient temperature is detected.16A and  DC Fast Charging / Supercharging will be unavailable..
The charge port light will pulse amber if this alert appears during AC charging and will be solid amber if this alert appears This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
Try re-inserting the charge cable fully into the charge port inlet.If your vehicle begins charging and the charge port light pulses green, the charge cable may not have been fully inserted before..
AC charging should no longer be limited, and DC Fast If charging is still limited or the vehicle will not charge at all,  make sure the charge port latch manual release cable (located on If charging is still limited or the vehicle will not charge at all, inspect the charge port inlet and the charge cable connector for any obstructions, such as debris, moisture, and/or foreign objects.
Make sure any charge port inlet obstruction has been removed and any moisture has been allowed to dry, then try re-inserting the cable into the charge port.
If you have checked for and cleared any debris or foreign objects, but charging is still limited or your vehicle will not charge at all, the charge port latch may be frozen.
To help thaw any ice on the charge port latch, press the Defrost Car  button in your Tesla Mobile App to defrost your vehicle for approximately 30 to 45 minutes.
It may also be possible to thaw any ice affecting the charge port latch by turning on rear defrost via your vehicle touchscreen.
Some vehicles are equipped with a charge port inlet heater that turns on when you turn on the rear defrost in cold weather If the alert remains present, limited AC charging should still be available.
High temperature detected by Wall Connector alerts indicate the building connection to the Wall Connector is getting too warm, so charging has been slowed to protect the wiring and Wall Connector.
This is not typically an issue with your vehicle or your Wall Connector, but rather an issue with the building wiring.
This may be caused by a loose building wiring connection to the Wall Connector and can be fixed quickly by an electrician.
Contact an electrician to inspect the building wiring connection to the Wall Connector.
They should make sure that all wires are properly connected and torqued according to the installation guide for the Wall Connector.Wall Connector installation guides can be found here ..
High temperature detected by Wall Connector alerts indicate the building connection to the Wall Connector is getting too warm, so charging has been slowed to protect the wiring and Wall Connector.
This is not typically an issue with your vehicle or your Wall Connector, but rather an issue with the building wiring.
This may be caused by a loose building wiring connection to the Wall Connector and can be fixed quickly by an electrician.
Contact an electrician to inspect the building wiring connection to the Wall Connector.
They should make sure that all wires are properly connected and torqued according to the installation guide for the Wall Connector.
For more information, see the installation guide  for your Wall Connector.Charging is unavailable..
The proximity sensor on the external charging equipment indicates that the charging handle is being pressed or the latch is disengaged.
This can happen when the external charging handle is not fully plugged in, causing the Try charging the vehicle with different charging equipment or at a different charging station.
• If the vehicle begins charging, the issue was likely with the equipment.• If the vehicle still does not charge, the issue may be with the vehicle..
This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located third-party charging stations may also be available in your area to help you pinpoint the issue.
For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Manual at Charging & Adapter Product Guides .
If using other external charging equipment, refer to the manufacturer's Charging was interrupted because the external charging equipment has reported a fault that prevents the vehicle from Inspect the external charging equipment and look for status lights, displays, or other status indicators on the equipment.
Consult the equipment owner's manual for further troubleshooting instructions.Try charging the vehicle with different charging equipment or at a different charging station..
• If the vehicle begins charging, the issue was likely with the equipment.• If the vehicle still does not charge, the issue may be with the vehicle..
This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located third-party charging stations may also be available in your area to help you pinpoint the issue.
For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Manual at Charging & Adapter Product Guides .
If using other external charging equipment, refer to the manufacturer's Charging was interrupted because the external charging equipment has reported a fault that prevents the vehicle from Inspect the external charging equipment and look for status lights, displays, or other status indicators on the equipment.
Consult the equipment owner's manual for further troubleshooting instructions.Try charging the vehicle with different charging equipment or at a different charging station..
• If the vehicle begins charging, the issue was likely with the equipment.• If the vehicle still does not charge, the issue may be with the vehicle..
This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located third-party charging stations may also be available in your area to help you pinpoint the issue.
For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Manual at Charging & Adapter Product Guides .
If using other external charging equipment, refer to the manufacturer's Charging is unavailable because your vehicle has detected an electric arc flash hazard in the third-party charging adapter used An electric arc flash can occur if you attempt to unplug while actively charging with the third-party charging adapter , and an electric arc flash can cause serious bodily injury and/or property damage.
1.Use your vehicle touchscreen to confirm charging has stopped, or to stop charging if necessary.. 2..
Use the charging station display and controls to confirm charging has stopped, or to end any active charging session.• Unplug the charging adapter from your vehicle’s charge port..
• Confirm again that the charging station indicates no active charging session.• Unplug the charging adapter from the charge handle.. Use different charging equipment to charge your vehicle..
For more information on charging, see Charging Instructions  on You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located Charging was interrupted because the external charging equipment has reported a fault that prevents the vehicle from Inspect the external charging equipment and look for status lights, displays, or other status indicators on the equipment.
Consult the equipment owner's manual for further troubleshooting instructions.Try charging the vehicle with different charging equipment or at a different charging station..
• If the vehicle begins charging, the issue was likely with the equipment.• If the vehicle still does not charge, the issue may be with the vehicle..
This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located third-party charging stations may also be available in your area to help you pinpoint the issue.
For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Manual at Charging & Adapter Product Guides .
If using other external charging equipment, refer to the manufacturer's provided documentation for troubleshooting tips.Troubleshooting Alerts Your vehicle's charge port requires service.
The charge port is unable to establish a valid control pilot signal and communicate effectively with some AC charging equipment and power sources.
While this alert remains present, AC charging and DC Fast Charging with non-Tesla charging stations may be limited or It is recommended that you schedule service to have your vehicle's charge port inspected at your earliest convenient In the meantime, Supercharging should continue to be available.
Supercharging locations can be displayed through the map on AC charging may also be available using a Gen 2 Mobile Connector or Gen 3 Wall Connector.
However, it is recommended that you make sure your vehicle's charge port can communicate with your Tesla charging product.
Try charging with your Gen 2 Mobile Connector or Gen 3 Wall Connector, and confirm your vehicle is charging as expected, before relying on it.
For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Charge handle still detected after unlatch request Your vehicle's charge port detects a charge cable / charge handle is still connected after receiving multiple requests to unlatch This alert may indicate the charge port latch is not releasing the charge cable as expected.
If the charge cable cannot be removed from the charge port after multiple attempts to unlatch it, try the manual release  cable 1.Make sure your vehicle is not actively charging..
◦ On your vehicle touchscreen, access the charging screen.3.. Pull the charge port release cable downwards to unlatch the charge cable..
If the charge cable still cannot be removed, the charge port latch may be frozen.Troubleshooting Alerts To help thaw any ice on the charge port latch, press the Defrost Car  button in your Tesla Mobile App to defrost your vehicle for It may also be possible to thaw any ice affecting the charge port latch by turning on rear defrost via your vehicle touchscreen.
Some vehicles are equipped with a charge port inlet heater that turns on when you turn on the rear defrost in cold weather If this alert occurs repeatedly over multiple drives and charging attempts, it is recommended that you schedule service to have your vehicle's charge port inspected at your earliest convenient opportunity.
For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's If using other external charging equipment, refer to the manufacturer's provided documentation for troubleshooting tips.
Your vehicle's front motor is unavailable.Power, speed, and acceleration may be reduced as your vehicle uses the rear Continue to your destination.. Your vehicle is OK to drive..
This alert may be caused by a temporary condition that will be resolved automatically.
If this alert clears during your current drive, or is no longer present when you start your next drive, it was likely caused by a temporary condition.
No action is This alert may also indicate a condition requiring front motor inspection and service.If this alert persists throughout subsequent drives, it is recommended that you schedule service..
Your vehicle is OK to drive in the meantime.expected vehicle behavior under various circumstances..
Your vehicle will automatically shift into Park if all of these conditions are true: • The last driver activity was detected more than 2 seconds ago.
Driver activity includes: ◦ Manually steering the vehicleTroubleshooting Alerts Cruise Control , including Traffic-Aware Cruise Control  , is currently unavailable.
• There is an environmental condition, such as limited visibility.When any condition preventing Cruise Control activation is no longer present, Cruise Control should be available..
If this alert persists throughout subsequent drives, schedule service at your earliest convenience.Your vehicle is OK to drive in the • The driver pressed the Cancel button on the touchscreen..
• The driver used the gear stalk or moved the steering wheel .• The driver pressed the accelerator pedal, pressed the brake pedal, or opened a door..
• There is a weather condition affecting visibility.• The curb cannot be detected.Troubleshooting Alerts Park, or finish parking, your vehicle manually..
Once you have finished parking, apply the brakes and shift into Park.Your Autopark  should be available again during your next drive..
Autopark  has aborted and the Electronic Parking Brake has been applied.• The driver pressed the Cancel button on the touchscreen.. • The driver used the gear stalk or moved the steering wheel ..
• The driver pressed the accelerator pedal, pressed the brake pedal, or opened a door.• There is a weather condition affecting visibility.. Autopark  should be available again during your next drive..
Your vehicle has detected that the rear tires have experienced more wear over time than the front tires, exceeding the It is recommended that the tread depth on all tires be inspected.
As your tires wear during normal driving, the rear tires Tire rotation is important to balance tire wear evenly across all tires.
Failure to rotate tires as recommended poses a risk of hydroplaning and losing control of the vehicle on wet roads.
Failure to rotate tires also decreases the life of your tires, requiring premature replacement.
It is recommended that you schedule service via your Tesla Mobile App or with an independent service provider to have your • The difference in tire tread depth between any front and rear tire exceeds 1.5mm Tires may need to be replaced if the rear tread depth is determined to be at an unsafe level and a tire rotation is no longer Upon completion of tire inspection and any necessary tire service, update your vehicle’s tire configuration to optimize your vehicle settings to your tires and clear the alert for at least 6,250 miles.
For more information, see Tire Care and Maintenance It is not recommended that you rely on this alert instead of routine checks of tire tread depth.
This alert should only be present when your vehicle estimates the tires are far beyond the recommended service interval.
This alert is calibrated for Tesla tires and is not expected to work with tires of different types or sizes, including combinations of different tire brands or models.
It may not display, or may display prematurely, on vehicles using tires not recommended by Vehicle Hold is currently unavailable due to system constraints.
When stopping, use the brake pedal to bring your vehicle to a Continue to your destination.Your vehicle is OK to drive..
If this alert persists throughout subsequent drives, schedule service at your earliest convenience.
Your vehicle is OK to drive Your vehicle has detected a condition requiring gearbox fluid inspection.Your vehicle is OK to drive with this alert present..
However, continuing to drive over an extended period of time with this alert present may result in permanent gearbox / powertrain damage.
expected vehicle behavior under various circumstances.Troubleshooting Alerts Your vehicle will automatically shift into Park if a combination of these conditions are true: • Your vehicle is traveling at very low speed in Drive or Reverse • The last driver activity was detected more than a few seconds ago.
Driver activity includes: • Driver can be detected as leaving or not present based on a combination of these conditions: ◦ Vehicle detects the driver's seat belt is unbuckled.
Hydraulic Fade Compensation is active.
This brake assist function activates temporarily to make sure you have full braking capability in conditions where reduced braking performance is detected by your vehicle.
When this assist function activates, you may feel the brake pedal pull away from your foot and notice a strong increase in brake pressure.
You may also hear a pumping sound coming from the brake hydraulic unit at the front of the vehicle.This will usually last for a few seconds, depending on road surface and vehicle speed..
This is completely normal and does not indicate any This alert will clear when your vehicle comes to a stop or you are no longer pressing the brake pedal.
It may still be displayed Reduced braking performance is usually temporary, and can occur for a number of reasons including high brake temperatures after heavy brake use, or driving in extremely cold or wet conditions.
It can also indicate that your brake pads or rotors have worn to the point that normal replacement is needed.
If you continue to experience reduced braking performance which does not improve over time, please contact Tesla service at Retry / Try other charge location or Supercharging Charging has stopped due to a condition that prevents your vehicle from charging with AC power.
DC fast charging / This may be due to power supply disturbances caused by the external charging equipment or by the electrical power grid.
In some cases, this condition may be the result of using nearby electric devices that draw a lot of power.
If these possible causes can be ruled out, then a condition with your vehicle itself may also be affecting AC charging.
If this alert is accompanied by another alert that specifies the condition affecting AC charging, start by investigating that alert.
Further troubleshooting tips based on equipment type: • If using a Mobile Connector, try charging the vehicle with a different wall outlet.
◦ If the vehicle starts to charge, the issue was likely with the original wall outlet.◦ If the vehicle still does not charge, the issue may be with the Mobile Connector..
• If using a Wall Connector, try charging the vehicle with different charging equipment like a Mobile Connector powered by a ◦ If the vehicle starts to charge, the issue was likely with the Wall Connector.
If the issue is with the original wall outlet or the Wall Connector, contact an electrician to inspect the wiring connection.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located If this alert persists when attempting to charge at multiple locations and with different charging equipment, it is recommended For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Power has been lost during charging.
This could result from the charging equipment losing power from the source (for example, a wall outlet) or from an issue with the charging equipment.
This alert is often accompanied by other alerts that can help you identify and troubleshoot the issue.Start by investigating any other displayed alerts that relate to charging issues..
Alternatively, you can check Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights to confirm power to the device, and also refer charging equipment, check for a display or other user interface that provides troubleshooting help.
If there is clearly no power to the charging equipment, check the circuit breaker for the wall outlet / Wall Connector to make Further troubleshooting tips based on equipment type: • If using a Mobile Connector, try charging the vehicle with a different wall outlet.
◦ If the vehicle starts to charge, the issue was likely with the original wall outlet.
◦ If the vehicle still does not charge, the issue may be with the Mobile Connector.Troubleshooting Alerts • If using a Wall Connector, try charging the vehicle with different charging equipment like a Mobile Connector powered by a ◦ If the vehicle starts to charge, the issue was likely with the Wall Connector.
If the issue is with the original wall outlet or the Wall Connector, contact an electrician to inspect the wiring connection.
This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Unplug and retry / Try different charging location Charging speed has been reduced due to a condition that affects your vehicle’s ability to charge with AC power.
DC fast charging / Supercharging should still function as expected.This may be due to power supply disturbances caused by the external charging equipment or by the electrical power grid..
In some cases, this condition may be the result of using nearby electric devices that draw a lot of power.
If these possible causes can be ruled out, then a condition with your vehicle itself may also be affecting AC charging.
If this alert is accompanied by another alert that specifies the condition affecting AC charging, start by investigating that alert.
Further troubleshooting tips based on equipment type: • If using a Mobile Connector, try charging the vehicle with a different wall outlet.
◦ If the vehicle starts to charge, the issue was likely with the original wall outlet.◦ If the vehicle still does not charge, the issue may be with the Mobile Connector..
• If using a Wall Connector, try charging the vehicle with different charging equipment like a Mobile Connector powered by a ◦ If the vehicle starts to charge, the issue was likely with the Wall Connector.
If the issue is with the original wall outlet or the Wall Connector, contact an electrician to inspect the wiring connection.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located If this alert persists when attempting to charge at multiple locations and with different charging equipment, it is recommended For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Charging speed has been reduced or charging has been interrupted due to a condition that affects your vehicle’s ability to charge with AC power.
DC fast charging / Supercharging should still function as expected.The onboard charger in your vehicle has detected power supply disturbances in the electrical power grid..
These disturbances Typical causes of these power supply disturbances include: • Issues with the building wiring and/or the wall outlet.
• Other large electric devices, such as washing machines or air conditioning units, that temporarily draw a lot of power or • External conditions affecting the electrical power grid.
As this alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources, and it does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service, it is recommended that you: • Try charging with multiple, different types of charging equipment at different locations.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Charging cannot begin due to a condition that prevents your vehicle from charging with AC power.
DC fast charging / Your vehicle has requested AC power from the external charging equipment, but the onboard charger does not detect any This can sometimes be caused by a hardware issue specific to the external charging equipment, which prevents the charging equipment from switching power to the vehicle on or off when requested.
It could also occur due to another condition affecting the external charging equipment, the power source it is connected to, or your vehicle itself.
This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
Try charging with multiple, different types of charging equipment.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Manual at Charging & Adapter Product Guides .Troubleshooting Alerts Charging speed has been reduced because the onboard charger in your vehicle has detected a large voltage drop during • Problems with the building wiring and/or the wall outlet.
• An extension cord or other wiring that cannot support the requested charge current.
This issue can also result from turning on electric devices that draw a lot of power from the same branch circuit while the This alert may also appear when an incompatible charging adapter is used with a charging station.
If this issue has occurred multiple times at your normal charging location, contact an electrician to inspect the electrical If using a charging adapter, make sure you are using the correct adapter for the charging station: • For J1772 AC charging stations, use only the J1772 adapter.
• For CCS Combo 1 DC charging stations, use only the CCS Combo 1 adapter.• The wrong adapter type might appear to make a physical connection or fit but prevent proper power transfer..
• Any installed charging equipment and its connection to the building wiring.• The building wiring, including any wall outlet used with a Mobile Connector..
• The electrical connection to the power utility line where it enters the building.
Discuss with the electrician whether the charge current on the vehicle should be lowered, or if the installation should be This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Charging has been interrupted because the onboard charger in your vehicle has detected an unusually large voltage drop.
• Problems with the building wiring and/or the wall outlet.Troubleshooting Alerts • An extension cord or other wiring that cannot support the requested charge current.
This issue can also result from turning on electric devices that draw a lot of power from the same branch circuit while the If this issue has occurred multiple times at your normal charging location, contact an electrician to inspect the electrical • Any installed charging equipment and its connection to the building wiring.
• The building wiring, including any wall outlet used with a Mobile Connector.• The electrical connection to the power utility line where it enters the building..
Discuss with the electrician whether the charge current on the vehicle should be lowered, or if the installation should be This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's AC charging cannot begin due to a condition that prevents your vehicle from charging with AC power.
DC fast charging / Your vehicle's onboard charger is detecting input voltage at the charge port when no power has been requested from the external charging equipment, which indicates the external charging equipment is not functioning as expected.
This can sometimes be caused by a hardware issue specific to the external charging equipment, which prevents the charging equipment from switching power to the vehicle on or off when requested.
It could also occur due to another condition affecting the external charging equipment, or a condition affecting your vehicle itself.
This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
Try charging with multiple, different types of charging equipment.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Charging speed has been reduced due to a condition that affects your vehicle’s ability to charge with AC power.
DC fast charging / Supercharging should still function as expected.Your vehicle's onboard charger has detected that one or more power converters is not receiving the necessary AC input voltage..
For example: during three-phase charging, one phase might be missing from the AC input power provided by the external source.
This could occur due to a condition affecting the external charging equipment, the power source it is This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
Try charging with multiple, different types of charging equipment.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector or Wall Connector status lights, refer to the product's Owner's Issue may persist even if functionality is restored Your vehicle's powertrain requires service.
Power, speed, and acceleration may be reduced, and your vehicle may need to shut This alert indicates a persistent condition requiring powertrain inspection and service.
Even if this alert clears after the current drive and does not return during subsequent drives, service is required to resolve the It is recommended that you schedule service for your vehicle's powertrain at your earliest opportunity.
Without service, your vehicle may continue to have reduced power, speed, and acceleration, may experience conditions that require it to shut down while driving, or may become unable to drive.
This alert indicates at least one of the two latches securing the hood, the front trunk primary and/or secondary latch, cannot As this condition may lead to the front trunk opening while driving, it is recommended that you drive carefully until you can safely bring your vehicle to a stop and shift into Park.
The alert should clear once your vehicle is shifted into Park.
However, it may return once you start driving if you do not first If this alert persists across multiple drives, or occurs with increasing frequency over several drives, it is recommended that you This alert is set remotely by Tesla when a condition requiring service is detected on your vehicle.
This alert can be set due to various conditions.When you schedule service, more information should be available..
This alert can only be cleared by a service technician after your vehicle has been serviced.
As this alert can be present due to various conditions, it is recommended that you schedule service at your earliest This alert indicates that one or more of the tires on your vehicle is extremely low or flat.
You should pull over carefully as soon as possible.In a safe location, check for a flat tire..
In a non-emergency situation, it is recommended that you visit a local tire shop for assistance or schedule service using your for your vehicle's tires, how to check tire pressures, and how to keep your tires properly inflated.
The alert will clear once the TPMS has a consistent tire pressure measurement for each of your tires within 3 psi of the • The alert and Tire Pressure indicator light may still be present immediately after you have filled your tires to the recommended cold pressure, but both should clear once you have driven a short distance.
This alert does NOT indicate that there is a flat tire.for your vehicle's tires, how to check tire pressures, and how to keep your tires properly inflated..
This alert may appear in cold weather because the air in your tires naturally contracts when it becomes cold, decreasing tire Add air to maintain the recommended cold tire pressure.
Although drops in tire pressure are expected in colder weather, the recommended cold tire pressure should be maintained at all times.The alert may clear as the vehicle is driven..
This is because the tires will warm up and the tire pressure will increase.Even if the alert clears, the tires should still be refilled with air once they have cooled..
The alert will clear once the Tire Pressure Monitoring System detects that each of your tires is inflated to the recommended • The alert and Tire Pressure indicator light may still be present immediately after you have filled your tires to the recommended cold pressure, but both should clear once you have driven a short distance.
If you repeatedly see this alert for the same tire, have the tire inspected for a slow leak.
You can visit a local tire shop or A service technician is remotely logged into your vehicle for diagnosis or repair.
You may notice some loss of Infotainment functionality while the connection persists, but this alert does not indicate an issue with your vehicle.
This alert should clear automatically after the technician completes vehicle diagnosis or repair.
You may find it necessary to restart your touchscreen to restore full Infotainment functionality after the alert has cleared.
For more information, see Restarting the Touchscreen in your vehicle's Do It Yourself Guide .
If this alert does not clear after 24 hours, it is recommended that you schedule service via your Tesla Mobile App or with an configuration and your location.Troubleshooting Alerts The Mobile Connector has detected that the electrical outlet has insufficient grounding, likely caused by an inadequate or This does not indicate an issue with your Mobile Connector or vehicle, but instead points to an issue with the wall outlet / electrical installation the Mobile Connector is connected to.
Have the electrical installation inspected by an electrician.
Your electrician should make sure there is proper grounding at your circuit breaker or power distribution box, and also make sure that appropriate connections are made to the outlet, before you If you need to charge in the meantime, try charging using a different outlet, at another location, or with another type of You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's Like the GFCI in a wall outlet, this feature is designed to stop the flow of electricity when there is a problem.
It has interrupted charging to protect your vehicle and the charging equipment.This could happen for many reasons..
The problem could be in the charge cable, the charge handle, the charge port, or even an Inspect the charge port and the charge handle for pooled water or unusual levels of moisture.
If you find excessive moisture, wait and let both the inside area of the charge port and the exposed portion of the charge handle dry sufficiently before trying • If the cable is in any way damaged or deteriorated, do not use it .
Try different charging equipment instead.• If the cable is in good condition, try charging again with the same Mobile Connector..
If the issue persists and prevents charging, try charging with different charging equipment.
This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's The vehicle cannot charge, or charging is interrupted, because either  the Mobile Connector: • Detects an unexpected increase in supply voltage from the wall outlet.
Try charging the vehicle with a different wall outlet.If the vehicle starts to charge, the issue was likely with the original wall outlet..
Contact an electrician to inspect the building wiring connection to that outlet.If the vehicle still does not charge when you try a different wall outlet, try charging at a different location..
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's The vehicle cannot charge, or charging is interrupted, because either  the Mobile Connector: • Does not detect enough supply voltage from the wall outlet, or • Detects an unexpected drop in supply voltage from the wall outlet.
Try charging the vehicle with a different wall outlet.If the vehicle starts to charge, the issue was likely with the original wall outlet..
Contact an electrician to inspect the building wiring connection to that outlet.If the vehicle still does not charge when you try a different wall outlet, try charging at a different location..
This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's Charging has been interrupted because the Mobile Connector has detected a high temperature inside its control box housing.
Make sure the Mobile Connector is not covered by anything, and that there is no heat source nearby.
If the problem persists in You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's High temperature detected by Mobile Connector alerts indicate the outlet used to charge is becoming too warm, so charging This does not indicate an issue with your Mobile Connector or vehicle, but instead points to an issue with the wall outlet / electrical installation the Mobile Connector is connected to.
A warm outlet may be caused by a plug that is not fully inserted, a loose building wiring connection to the outlet, or an outlet Make sure your adapter is fully plugged into the outlet.
If charging speed does not return to normal, contact an electrician to inspect the outlet and building wiring connections to the outlet and complete any repairs needed.
If the outlet is worn, it should be replaced with a high-quality outlet.
Consider upgrading to a Tesla Wall Connector for greater Charging has been interrupted because the Mobile Connector has detected a high temperature in the charge handle that Make sure the Mobile Connector is fully inserted into your vehicle's charge port inlet.
Inspect the charge port inlet and the Mobile Connector handle for any obstructions or moisture.
Make sure any obstruction in the charge port or Mobile Connector handle has been removed and any moisture has been allowed to dry, then try re-inserting Also make sure the charge handle of the Mobile Connector is not covered by anything, and that there is no heat source nearby.Troubleshooting Alerts may indicate a condition affecting the Mobile Connector or your vehicle.
It is recommended that you schedule service at your You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's Let cool - Plug adapter fully into Mobile Connector Charging has been interrupted because the Mobile Connector has detected a high temperature at the connection between the Make sure the wall plug adapter is fully connected to the Mobile Connector control box.
Also make sure the wall plug adapter is not covered by anything, and that there is no heat source nearby.control box connection for any obstructions or moisture..
Make sure any obstruction has been removed and any moisture has been allowed to dry, then try re-inserting the wall plug adapter into the Mobile Connector and then connecting to the power Once the Mobile Connector control box temperature has decreased and any obstruction has been removed, the alert should You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's Your vehicle is unable to charge because it cannot communicate effectively with the Mobile Connector.
The Mobile Connector cannot confirm via proximity detection that the charge handle is fully connected to your vehicle.
First, confirm the lack of effective communication is caused by the Mobile Connector rather than an issue with your vehicle.
To confirm this, try charging the vehicle using different external charging equipment.• If the vehicle begins charging, the issue was likely with the Mobile Connector..
• If the vehicle still does not charge, the issue may be with the vehicle.
any obstruction has been removed and any moisture has been allowed to dry, then try re-inserting the Mobile Connector handle into the charge port.Troubleshooting Alerts This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's Your vehicle is unable to charge because it cannot communicate effectively with the Mobile Connector.
The Mobile Connector detects that it cannot generate or maintain a valid control pilot signal.
First, confirm the lack of effective communication is caused by the Mobile Connector rather than an issue with your vehicle.
To confirm this, try charging the vehicle using different external charging equipment.• If the vehicle begins charging, the issue was likely with the Mobile Connector..
• If the vehicle still does not charge, the issue may be with the vehicle.
any obstruction has been removed and any moisture has been allowed to dry, then try re-inserting the Mobile Connector This alert is usually specific to external charging equipment and power sources and does not typically indicate an issue with your vehicle that can be resolved by scheduling service.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's Plug adapter fully into Mobile Connector and retry Your Mobile Connector is unable to communicate with the wall plug adapter.
Because your Mobile Connector cannot monitor the wall plug adapter temperature, charge current is automatically reduced to 8A.1..
Unplug your Mobile Connector, including the wall plug adapter, completely from the wall outlet.2..
Make sure the connection between the wall plug adapter and the main body of your Mobile Connector is secure.a..
Disconnect the wall plug adapter completely from the main body of your Mobile Connector.Troubleshooting Alerts b.
Fully reinsert the wall plug adapter into the main body of your Mobile Connector by pushing it into the socket until it 3.
Try charging again by plugging the Mobile Connector, including wall plug adapter, fully into the wall outlet.4..
If the alert persists, try using a different wall plug adapter (see steps above to make sure the adapter is fully connected to a.
If the alert is no longer present, the issue is likely with the wall plug adapter you were using previously.b.. If the alert persists, the issue is likely with your Mobile Connector..
If needed, obtain another wall plug adapter or Mobile Connector.In the meantime, you can continue to charge with the same equipment..
The charge rate will be reduced, as charge current will You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's Plug adapter fully into Mobile Connector and retry Your Mobile Connector is unable to communicate with the wall plug adapter.
Because your Mobile Connector cannot identify the type of wall outlet the wall plug adapter is connected to, charge current is automatically reduced to 8A.1..
Unplug your Mobile Connector, including the wall plug adapter, completely from the wall outlet.2..
Make sure the connection between the wall plug adapter and the main body of your Mobile Connector is secure.a..
Disconnect the wall plug adapter completely from the main body of your Mobile Connector.b..
Fully reinsert the wall plug adapter into the main body of your Mobile Connector by pushing it into the socket until it 3.
Try charging again by plugging the Mobile Connector, including wall plug adapter, fully into the wall outlet.4..
If the alert persists, try using a different wall plug adapter (see steps above to make sure the adapter is fully connected to a.
If the alert is no longer present, the issue is likely with the wall plug adapter you were using previously.b.. If the alert persists, the issue is likely with your Mobile Connector..
If needed, obtain another wall plug adapter or Mobile Connector.In the meantime, you can continue to charge with the same equipment..
The charge rate will be reduced, as charge current will be limited to 8A while this condition persists.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's Plug adapter fully into Mobile Connector and retry Your Mobile Connector is unable to communicate with the wall plug adapter.
Because your Mobile Connector cannot identify the type of wall outlet the wall plug adapter is connected to, charge current is automatically reduced to 8A.1..
Unplug your Mobile Connector, including the wall plug adapter, completely from the wall outlet.2..
Make sure the connection between the wall plug adapter and the main body of your Mobile Connector is secure.a..
Disconnect the wall plug adapter completely from the main body of your Mobile Connector.b..
Fully reinsert the wall plug adapter into the main body of your Mobile Connector by pushing it into the socket until it 3.
Try charging again by plugging the Mobile Connector, including wall plug adapter, fully into the wall outlet.4..
If the alert persists, try using a different wall plug adapter (see steps above to make sure the adapter is fully connected to a.
If the alert is no longer present, the issue is likely with the wall plug adapter you were using previously.b.. If the alert persists, the issue is likely with your Mobile Connector..
If needed, obtain another wall plug adapter or Mobile Connector.In the meantime, you can continue to charge with the same equipment..
The charge rate will be reduced, as charge current will be limited to 8A while this condition persists.
You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's Charge current has been temporarily reduced because the Mobile Connector has detected increased temperature inside its Make sure the Mobile Connector is not covered by anything, and that there is no heat source nearby.
If the problem persists in You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's High temperature detected by Mobile Connector alerts indicate the outlet used to charge is becoming too warm, so charging This is not typically an issue with your vehicle or your Mobile Connector, but rather an issue with the outlet.
A warm outlet may be caused by a plug that is not fully inserted, a loose building wiring connection to the outlet, or an outlet that is beginning to Make sure your adapter is fully plugged into the outlet.
If charging speed does not return to normal, contact an electrician to inspect the outlet and building wiring connections to the outlet and complete any repairs needed.
If the outlet is worn, it should be replaced with a high-quality outlet.
Consider upgrading to a Tesla Wall Connector for greater Charge current has been temporarily reduced because the Mobile Connector has detected increased temperature in the charge handle that connects to your vehicle's charge port.
Make sure the Mobile Connector is fully inserted into your vehicle's charge port inlet.Inspect the charge port inlet and the Mobile Connector handle for any obstructions or moisture..
Make sure any obstruction in the charge port or Mobile Connector handle has been removed and any moisture has been allowed to dry, then try re-inserting Also make sure the charge handle of the Mobile Connector is not covered by anything, and that there is no heat source nearby.
may indicate a condition affecting the Mobile Connector or your vehicle.
It is recommended that you schedule service at your You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's Charge current has been reduced because the Mobile Connector has detected a high temperature at the connection between Make sure the wall plug adapter is fully connected to the Mobile Connector control box.
control box connection for any obstructions or moisture.It is recommended that any debris / foreign objects be removed..
Make sure any obstruction has been removed and any moisture has been allowed to dry, then try re-inserting the wall plug adapter into the Mobile Connector and then connecting to Also make sure the wall plug adapter is not covered by anything, and that there is no heat source nearby.
If the alert persists in condition affecting the Mobile Connector or your vehicle.
It is recommended that you schedule service at your convenience.Troubleshooting Alerts You can also try charging your vehicle using a Tesla Supercharger or Destination Charging location, all of which can be located For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's The Mobile Connector detects the electrical outlet it is connected to has an insufficient ground connection.
This does not indicate an issue with your Mobile Connector or vehicle.This alert indicates an issue with the electrical installation..
Try connecting your Mobile Connector to a different electrical outlet.Remove any extension cords and third-party adapters..
An electrician should ensure the outlet used to connect the Mobile Connector is grounded.
For more information on troubleshooting Mobile Connector status lights and charging issues, refer to the product's owner's You can also use other charging methods, including a Tesla Supercharger which can be located through the map on your vehicle's center display.
Additional third-party charging stations may also be available in your area to help you to pinpoint the The electrical system cannot maintain the voltage required to support all vehicle features.
If this alert is present while you are driving, it is possible your vehicle will shut down unexpectedly.
If this alert is present when your vehicle is in Park or when it first wakes, it is possible your vehicle may not have adequate electrical power to start driving.
A separate vehicle alert may be present to indicate that condition.It is recommended that you eliminate or reduce your use of any non-essential features..
This can help your vehicle maintain adequate electrical power for essential functions.If this alert remains active, schedule service immediately..
Without service, your vehicle may shut down unexpectedly or may Software will not update until battery is replaced The low voltage battery is showing degraded performance and needs to be replaced.
Until the low voltage battery is replaced, vehicle software updates will not complete.Troubleshooting Alerts It is recommended that you have the low voltage battery replaced at your earliest convenient opportunity.
You can schedule service via your Tesla Mobile App, or with an independent service provider that offers low voltage battery If the low voltage battery does not have enough electrical power to turn on your vehicle or open the doors, follow the The low voltage battery cannot provide the electrical support necessary to drive or continue driving.
Your vehicle is shutting down to preserve energy for essential functions other than driving.Your vehicle cannot be driven or continue driving while this condition continues..
If this alert is present while you are driving, your vehicle needs to come to a stop immediately.
It is recommended that you: • Use your Mobile App to contact Tesla Roadside Assistance immediately, or seek other roadside assistance if preferred If you do not pull over safely within a short time, your vehicle may shut down unexpectedly.
It is also possible that your vehicle When this alert is present, the electrical system cannot maintain the voltage required to support all vehicle features.
Many It is possible your vehicle may lose all electrical power.If this occurs, you can still use the manual door releases to exit the This alert may be present due to various vehicle conditions..
For more information and further recommended actions, check for If this alert remains present, it is recommended that you schedule service immediately.
Without service, your vehicle may not drive, may shut down unexpectedly, or may not restart.
Electrical system is unable to support all features The electrical system cannot support all vehicle features.
Your vehicle is shutting down nonessential features to preserve If you are driving when this alert is present, it is possible your vehicle may shut down unexpectedly.
It is also possible that your Nonessential features may be unavailable, including seat heaters, cabin climate control, and in-vehicle entertainment.
This is expected behavior intended to help your vehicle maintain adequate electrical power for essential functions, including the It is possible your vehicle may lose all electrical power.
If this occurs, you can still use the manual door releases to exit the This alert may be present due to various vehicle conditions.
For more information and further recommended actions, check for An abnormally large and sustained power draw while driving or Supercharging / DC Fast Charging has made your vehicle’s electrical system unable to support all features and functions.
Your vehicle will not restart until the electrical system has been serviced.
Cabin climate control and air vent positioning, powered trunk liftgate, and steering column adjustments may be limited or Other features and functions may also unavailable, or their performance may be affected.
These include: It is recommended that you schedule service at your earliest opportunity.
Without service, your vehicle will remain unable to restart, and the electrical system will remain unable to support all features and functions.
Some or all of the powered doors and windows in your vehicle may lose electrical power.
If this occurs, you can still use the Electrical system is unable to support all features The low voltage battery is not available and cannot provide electrical support for vehicle features.
It is possible your vehicle will shut down unexpectedly.It is also possible that your vehicle will not restart after the current You may notice that some nonessential features are not available..
This is expected behavior due to your vehicle preserving It is recommended that you eliminate or reduce your use of any nonessential features.
This can help your vehicle maintain adequate electrical power for essential functions other than driving, until it can be serviced.
If this alert remains present, it is recommended that you schedule service immediately.
Without service, your vehicle may not drive, may shut down unexpectedly, or may not restart.Troubleshooting Alerts The vehicle detects a low coolant level, which is often caused by a leak.
If the coolant level is significantly low, it may affect your vehicle's driving performance, climate control, or even cause damage Park your vehicle in a safe location.
Inspect underneath the vehicle for signs of a leak or damage.
Look for obvious signs such • Significant damage to any portion of the vehicle underbody If there are obvious signs of a leak or significant damage to the vehicle, schedule service immediately.
Without service, your vehicle may not drive and features may be limited.If you do not find any obvious signs of a leak or damage, schedule service soon.. Your vehicle is OK to drive in the meantime..
It is still recommended to schedule service to ensure the issue is properly diagnosed and resolved.
Refilling the coolant to the proper level can clear the alert, but if the alert returns, a leak is likely present and service should still be scheduled.
When refilling the coolant, make sure to only use a Tesla approved coolant.
Refer to the vehicle's Service The backup power source for the electrical system, the low voltage battery, is not available or cannot provide the voltage The primary source of electrical power, the high voltage battery system, will continue to support vehicle functions, even when You may notice that some nonessential features are not available.
This is expected behavior due to your vehicle preserving You may also notice that your vehicle consumes more energy than usual when you are not driving it, or that your vehicle displays a lower projected range than you would normally expect after charging.
This is normal vehicle behavior when this alert is present, and it will continue until the backup power source is restored.
There is a chance that an issue affecting the primary power source could cause your vehicle to shut down unexpectedly.It is recommended that you limit or avoid the use of any nonessential features..
This can help your vehicle maintain adequate It is recommended that you schedule service at your earliest opportunity, so the backup power source for the electrical system The electrical system cannot provide adequate support to drive or continue driving.
Your vehicle is preparing to shut down to preserve energy for essential functions other than driving.Your vehicle cannot be driven or continue driving while this condition continues..
If this alert is present while you are driving, your vehicle needs to come to a stop as soon as possible.
It is recommended that • Use your Mobile App to contact Tesla Roadside Assistance immediately, or seek other roadside assistance if preferred If you do not pull over safely within a short time, your vehicle may shut down unexpectedly.
It is also possible that your vehicle It is possible your vehicle may lose all electrical power.
If this occurs, you can still use the manual door releases to exit the This alert may be present due to various vehicle conditions.
For more information and further recommended actions, check for An abnormally large and sustained power draw has made your vehicle’s electrical system unable to support all features and While this alert is present, your vehicle is unable to drive and will not restart.
Cabin climate control, powered trunk liftgate, and steering column adjustments may be limited or unavailable.
Many features and functions on the  left side of your vehicle may be unavailable, or their performance may be affected.
These include: Without service, your vehicle will remain unable to drive, and the electrical system will remain unable to support all features Some or all of the powered doors and windows in your vehicle may lose electrical power.
If this occurs, you can still use the An abnormally large and sustained power draw has made your vehicle’s electrical system unable to support all features and While this alert is present, your vehicle is unable to drive and will not restart.
Cabin climate control, powered trunk liftgate, and steering column adjustments may be limited or unavailable.
Many features and functions on the  left side of your vehicle may be unavailable, or their performance may be affected.
These include: Without service, your vehicle will remain unable to drive, and the electrical system will remain unable to support all features Some or all of the powered doors and windows in your vehicle may lose electrical power.
If this occurs, you can still use the An abnormally large and sustained power draw has made your vehicle’s electrical system unable to support all features and While this alert is present, your vehicle is unable to drive and will not restart.
Air vent positioning may be limited or unavailable.Many features and functions on the  right  side of your vehicle may be unavailable, or their performance may be affected..
These include: It is recommended that you schedule service at your earliest opportunity.
Without service, your vehicle will remain unable to drive, and the electrical system will remain unable to support all features and functions.
Some or all of the powered doors and windows in your vehicle may lose electrical power.
If this occurs, you can still use the An abnormally large and sustained power draw has made your vehicle’s electrical system unable to support all features and While this alert is present, your vehicle is unable to drive and will not restart.
Air vent positioning may be limited or unavailable.Many features and functions on the  right  side of your vehicle may be unavailable, or their performance may be affected..
These include: It is recommended that you schedule service at your earliest opportunity.
Without service, your vehicle will remain unable to drive, and the electrical system will remain unable to support all features and functions.
Some or all of the powered doors and windows in your vehicle may lose electrical power.If this occurs, you can still use the This alert does NOT indicate that there is a flat tire..
for your vehicle's tires, how to check tire pressures, and how to keep your tires properly inflated.
This alert may appear in cold weather because the air in your tires naturally contracts when it becomes cold, decreasing tire Add air to maintain the recommended cold tire pressure.
Although drops in tire pressure are expected in colder weather, the recommended cold tire pressure should be maintained at all times.The alert may clear as the vehicle is driven..
This is because the tires will warm up and the tire pressure will increase.Even if the alert clears, the tires should still be refilled with air once they have cooled..
The alert will clear once the Tire Pressure Monitoring System detects that each of your tires is inflated to the recommended • The alert and Tire Pressure indicator light may still be present immediately after you have filled your tires to the recommended cold pressure, but both should clear once you have driven a short distance.Troubleshooting Alerts If you repeatedly see this alert for the same tire, have the tire inspected for a slow leak.
You can visit a local tire shop or This alert indicates that one or more of the tires on your vehicle is extremely low or flat.You should pull over carefully as soon as possible..
In a safe location, check for a flat tire.
In a non-emergency situation, it is recommended that you visit a local tire shop for assistance or schedule service using your for your vehicle's tires, how to check tire pressures, and how to keep your tires properly inflated.
The alert should clear once the Tire Pressure Monitoring System has a consistent tire pressure measurement for each of your • The alert and Tire Pressure indicator light may still be present immediately after you have filled your tires to the recommended cold pressure, but both should clear once you have driven a short distance.
For the latest and greatest information that is customized to your vehicle, view the Owner’s Manual on your vehicle’s touchscreen by touching Controls  > Service  > Owner's Manual .
The information is specific to your vehicle depending on the features you purchased, vehicle configuration, market region and software version.
In contrast, owner information that is provided by Tesla elsewhere is updated as necessary and may not contain information unique to your vehicle.
Information about new features is displayed on the touchscreen after a software update, and can be viewed at the content in the Owner's Manual on how to use your vehicle The illustrations provided in this document are for demonstration purposes only.
Depending on vehicle options, software version and market region, the information displayed on the touchscreen in your vehicle may appear configurations and/or only in specific market regions.
Options or features mentioned in the Owner's Manual does not guarantee they are available on your specific vehicle.
See All specifications and descriptions are known to be accurate at time of publishing.
However, because continuous improvement is a goal at Tesla, we reserve the right to make product modifications at any time.
To communicate any inaccuracies or omissions, or to provide general feedback or suggestions regarding the quality of the Owner's Manual, Owner information may specify the location of a component as being on the left or right side of the vehicle.
As shown, left © 2012-2025 Tesla, Inc.All information in this document and all vehicle software is subject to copyright and other intellectual property rights of Tesla, Inc.. and its licensors..
This material may not be modified, reproduced or copied, in whole or in part, without the prior written permission of Tesla, Inc.and its licensors.. Additional information is available upon request..
Tesla uses software created by the Open Source community.Please visit Tesla’s Open Source software website at www.tesla.com/opensource..
HD Radio is a registered trademark of iBiquity Digital Corporation.
The following are trademarks or registered trademarks of Tesla, All other trademarks contained in this document are the property of their respective owners and their use herein does not imply sponsorship or endorsement of their products or services.
The unauthorized use of any trademark displayed in this document or on the vehicle is strictly prohibited.About this Owner Information Your Tesla is constantly changing, with new features being added and improved upon with every software update.
However, depending on the firmware release operating on your vehicle, your vehicle may not be equipped with all features or may not operate exactly as described in this depending on market region, vehicle configuration, options Referencing options or features mentioned in this Owner’s Manual does not guarantee they are available on your specific vehicle.
The best way to ensure you are getting the latest and greatest features is update your vehicle’s software as soon as you receive the notification to do so.
You can also set your preferences to Controls > Software > Software Preferences > information.
For the features available on your vehicle, always comply with local laws and limits to ensure the safety of you, your passengers, and those around you.Feature Availability Statement main purpose of an EDR is to record, in certain crash or near crash-like situations, data such as an airbag deployment or hitting a road obstacle, to better understand how the vehicle's systems performed.
The EDR is designed to record data related to vehicle dynamics and safety systems for a short period of time, typically 30 seconds or less.
The EDR in • How various systems in your vehicle were operating; • Whether or not the driver and passenger safety belts were The data can help provide a better understanding of the circumstances in which crashes and injuries occur.
trivial crash situation occurs; no data is recorded by the EDR under normal driving conditions and no personal data (for example, name, gender, age, and crash location) is recorded.
However, other parties, such as law enforcement, could combine the EDR data with person identifying data they To read data recorded by an EDR, special equipment is required, and access to the vehicle or the EDR is needed.
In addition to the vehicle manufacturer, other parties, such as law enforcement, that have this special equipment, can read the information if they have access to the vehicle or the EDR.
Tesla may also access the EDR remotely in some crash Model 3  is equipped with electronic modules that monitor and record data from various vehicle systems, including the motor, Self-Driving  components, Battery, braking and information about various driving and vehicle conditions, including braking, acceleration, trip and other related information regarding your vehicle.
These modules also record information about the vehicle’s features such as charging events and status, the enabling/disabling of various systems, diagnostic trouble codes, VIN, speed, direction and The data is stored by the vehicle and may be accessed, used and stored by Tesla service technicians during vehicle servicing or periodically transmitted to Tesla wirelessly through the vehicle’s telematics system.
This data may be used by Tesla for various purposes, including, but not limited troubleshooting; evaluation of your vehicle’s quality, functionality and performance; analysis and research by Tesla and its partners for the improvement and design of our vehicles and systems; to defend Tesla; and as otherwise may be required by law.
In servicing your vehicle, Tesla can potentially resolve issues remotely simply by reviewing your Tesla’s telematics system wirelessly transmits vehicle information to Tesla on a periodic basis.
The data is used as maintenance of your vehicle.
Additional Model 3  features may use your vehicle’s telematics system and the information provided, including features such as charging reminders, software updates, and remote access to, and control of, Tesla does not disclose the data recorded in your vehicle to • An agreement or consent from the vehicle’s owner (or the leasing company for a leased vehicle) is obtained.
• Officially requested by the police or other authorities.
• Used for research purposes without disclosing details of • Disclosed to a Tesla affiliated company, including their successors or assigns, or our information systems and For additional information regarding how Tesla processes data collected from your vehicle, please review Tesla's Privacy Notice at http://www.tesla.com/about/legal .
For quality assurance and to support the continuous improvement of advanced features such as Self-Driving , your Model 3  may collect analytics, road segment, diagnostic, and vehicle usage data and send to Tesla for analysis.
This analysis helps Tesla improve products and services by learning from the experience of billions of miles that Tesla vehicles have driven.
Although Tesla shares this data with partners that contribute similar data, the collected information does not identify you personally and can be sent to Tesla only with your explicit consent.
In order to protect your privacy, personal information is either not logged at all, is subject to privacy preserving techniques, or is removed from any reports before being sent to Tesla.
You have control over what data you share by touching Controls  > Software  > For additional information regarding how Tesla processes data collected from your vehicle, please review Tesla's Privacy Notice at http://www.tesla.com/about/legal .
and operation, as discussed in this document, Tesla does not record or store vehicle-specific GPS information, except the location where a crash occurred.
Consequently, Tesla is unable to provide historical information about a vehicle's location (for example, Tesla is unable to tell you where Model 3 was parked/traveling at a particular date/time).Disclaimers You might notice a few miles/km  on the odometer when you take delivery of your Model 3 .
This is a result of a comprehensive testing process that ensures the quality of The testing process includes extensive inspections during and after production.
The final inspection takes place at Tesla and includes a road test conducted by a technician.
allowed to use sound effects free of charge and royalty free in your multimedia projects for commercial or non- Licensed by X Corp., FKA Twitter, Inc.(©2025 X Corp..
and other contributors) under the Creative Commons Attribution passenger vehicle or off-highway motor vehicle can expose you to chemicals including phthalates and lead, which are known to the State of California to cause cancer and birth defects or other reproductive harm.
To minimize exposure, wear gloves or wash your hands contain Perchlorate Material.Special handling may be required for service or vehicle end of life disposal..
See For detailed information about your Model 3 , go to http:// www.tesla.com  and log on to your Tesla account or sign up to If you have any questions or concerns about your Model 3 , in to Tesla.
Say "Report" , "Feedback" , or "Bug report"  followed by brief comments.
Model 3  takes a snapshot of its systems, including your current location, vehicle diagnostic data, and screen captures of the touchscreen.
Tesla periodically If you believe that Model 3  has a defect which could cause a crash or could cause injury or death, you should immediately inform the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration If NHTSA receives similar complaints, it may open an investigation.
If it finds that a safety defect exists in a group of vehicles, it may order a recall and remedy campaign.
However, NHTSA cannot become involved in individual To contact NHTSA, you may call the Vehicle Safety Hotline www.safercar.gov ; or write to: Administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety, 1200 New Jersey Avenue SE., If you believe that your Model 3  has a defect which could cause a crash or could cause injury or death, you should immediately inform Transport Canada, in addition to notifying Tesla.
To contact Transport Canada, call their toll-free When you sell Model 3 , you can remove your ownership and transfer the vehicle to a new owner in the Tesla mobile app.
• No longer own the vehicle or you no longer need access • Can access Wi-Fi and Model 3  before opening the app.1.. Perform a factory reset for security purposes by touching 2..
Remove or transfer Model 3  by touching My Products  > When you remove Model 3  from a Tesla account, it ends all paid subscriptions for that vehicle.
It also removes any incentives earned or held by the original vehicle owner.Removed incentives cannot be restored.. Bluetooth devices, profiles, and navigation history are also cleared..
If you transfer Model 3  to a new owner, you both receive an Supercharging credits, upgrades, subscriptions, and some After you have created a Tesla account, request the previous owner to transfer ownership to you.
If the previous owner is unable to transfer ownership, you can use the Tesla mobile app to claim ownership of Model 3  you purchased through a third party.
Make sure you have access to Wi-Fi and the If you do not have any Tesla vehicles in the app, go to your If you already have a Tesla vehicle in the app, touch the name of your vehicle in the top-left corner and then touch Add See https://www.tesla.com/support/how-add-or-remove- vehicles-tesla-app  for additional details about the process and any required documentation.Manage Vehicle Ownership Key fob Tesla 1133148 2400-2483.5 2AEIM-1133148 20098-1133148 Tesla 1472547G 2400-2483.5 2AEIM-1472547G 20098-1472547G Operation is subject to the following two conditions: 1.
This device may not cause harmful interference; and 2.This device must accept any interference received, including interference that may cause undesired operation..
Changes or modifications not expressly approved by Tesla could void your authority to operate the equipment.Certification Conformity This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for a Class B digital device, pursuant to Part 15 of the FCC Rules.
These limits are designed to provide reasonable protection against harmful interference in a residential installation.
This equipment generates, uses and can radiate radio frequency energy and, if not installed and used in accordance with the instructions, may cause harmful interference to radio communications.
However, there is no guarantee that interference will not occur in a particular installation.
If this equipment does cause harmful interference to radio or television reception, which can be determined by turning the equipment off and on, try to correct the interference by one or more of the following • Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver.
• Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit different from that to which the receiver is connected.• Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/TV technician to help..
CAUTION:  This equipment and its antennas must not be co-located or operated with another antenna or transmitter.
The products comply with the FCC/ISED RF Exposure for Low Power Consumer Wireless Power Transfer.
RF exposure limits are set forth for an uncontrolled environment and are safe for intended operation as described in this manual.
The farthest RF exposure demonstrated by compliance was at 20cm and farther from the user's body; set the device to low output power if Le présent appareil est conforme aux CNR d'Industrie Canada applicables aux appareils radioexempts de licence.
l'appareil doit accepter tout brouillage radioélectrique subi, même si le brouillage est susceptible d'en compromettre Cet équipement est conforme aux limites d’exposition aux rayonnements ISED établies pour unenvironnement non contrôlé.
Le produit est conforme à l'exposition RF ISED pour le transfert de puissance sans fil de consommateurs de faible puissance.
La limite d'exposition RF fixée pour un environnement non contrôlé est sans danger pour le fonctionnement prévu tel que décrit dans ce manuel.
L'exposition RF supplémentaire que la conformité a été démontrée à 20cm et plus de séparation du corps de l'utilisateur ou de mettre l'appareil à la puissance de sortie inférieure si une telle fonction est disponible.
La operación de este equipo está sujeta a las siguientes dos condiciones: 1.Es posible que este equipo o dispositivo no cause interferencia perjudicial.. 2..
Este equipo debe aceptar cualquier interferencia, incluyendo la que pueda causar su operación no deseada.Certification Conformity Bluetooth: 52, 54, 156devices, playing audio files from: 156 Inteligent Navigation: 148interior: 5, 66, 138, 188, 213 Self-Driving: 86, 89, 90, 91, 92, 96, 97, 98, 103, 104, 111,
